# Gardner Museum Heist, 1990

[caption id="attachment_1455" align="alignleft" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/12/800px-ISGardnerMuseum.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1455" title="800px-ISGardnerMuseum" alt="Isabella
Stewart Gardner Museum"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/12/800px-ISGardnerMuseum-300x186.jpg"
width="300" height="186" /></a> The Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, courtesy
Wikimedia
Commons[/caption]

Update: As of October 21, 2013 there is <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_85JLJJ6NA13AS8O">video</a> related to
this post on our
website.

Anyone who lives in or near Boston, or even just visits, is really missing out
if they don’t go spend an afternoon at the <a
href="http://www.gardnermuseum.org/">Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum</a>. The
building is lovely and impressive, and I can only imagine what it was like
when the eccentric <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isabella_Stewart_Gardner">Ms. Gardner
</a>still lived on the top floor. While this is not your typical art museum,
it certainly is, first and foremost, a museum that displays important and
beautiful pieces of art. It was, therefore, quite a blow when <a
href="http://www.gardnermuseum.org/resources/theft">13 paintings, drawings,
and artifacts were stolen in 1990</a>. The estimated worth of the stolen works
is 500 million dollars, which makes the robbery, not only the largest art
theft, but the largest property theft
ever.

The story, as told by the museum, is that the thieves, dressed as police
officers, tricked the guard on duty by saying they were responding to a call
from the museum. Once they had gained entry, they handcuffed the guards and
secured them to pipes in the basement. They stole many works of art including
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johannes_Vermeer">Vermeer</a>’s <em>The
Concert,</em> three <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rembrandt">Rembrandts</a>, a <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%89douard_Manet">Manet</a>, and five
drawings by <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Degas">Degas</a>. I share
the Gardner Museum’s hope to one day recover the pieces, even if they never
apprehend the thieves. Degas is my favorite artist, and I would be thrilled to
see those
drawings.

In the last few years, the ongoing investigation has had what looked like
hopeful leads, although nothing has resulting in solving the case. With the
2011 capture of Boston organized crime figure <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whitey_Bulger">Whitey Bulger</a>, the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fbi">FBI</a> was hoping to get new leads.
It’s not certain that Bulger was in anyway connected to the crime, but he knew
everyone in Boston’s crime world, so he probably has some
information.

The case continues to be pursued by the Museum and the <a
href="http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/investigate/vc_majorthefts/arttheft/isabella">FBI</a>.
The Museum continues to display the empty frames where the artworks should be.
“We decided collectively to put them back up in order to observe a mourning,
so people could recognize this loss and also so people would be vigilant about
the need to get them back,” says Museum Director Anne
Hawley.

<strong>References:</strong>

“Art Museum Offers Reward.” <em>Harvard Crimson</em>, March, 221, 1990.  <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1990/3/21/art-museum-offers-reward-pboston-officials-at/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1990/3/21/art-museum-offers-reward-pboston-officials-at/</a>

Felch, Jason. “What does Whitey Bulger know about the 1990 Gardner Museum art
heist?” Los Angeles Times, June 23, 2011. <a
href="http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/culturemonster/2011/06/what-does-whitey-bulger-know-about-the-1990-gardner-museum-art-heist.html">http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/culturemonster/2011/06/what-does-whitey-bulger-know-about-the-1990-gardner-museum-art-heist.html</a>

“Museum Theft Stumps Police.” <em>Harvard Crimson</em>, April, 03, 1990. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1990/4/3/museum-theft-stumps-police-pboston-two-weeks/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1990/4/3/museum-theft-stumps-police-pboston-two-weeks/</a>

Nadrich, Lindsay. “22 Years Later, $300 Million Art Theft Investigation Heats
Up.” CNBC, May 16, 2012.
http://www.cnbc.com/id/47437214/22_Years_Later_300_Million_Art_Theft_Investigation_Heats_Up