# Fortune Society visits Emerson College

While in the midst of transcribing the many index cards for the Boston Local
News Project, I came upon a card labeled Fortune Society. From my first glance
at the title Fortune Society, I initially thought it might be referring to
some kind of entrepreneurs’ club or organization.  The subject line of the
card, "ex-cons", prompted me to question that assumption.  It turns out that
the <a href="http://fortunesociety.org/">Fortune Society</a> is something a
little different.  It’s true the society’s aim is to improve the “fortune” of
those it serves. But its clientele aren’t successful business and professional
people.

<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Screen-shot-2011-06-30-at-2.17.22-PM.png"><img
class="alignright size-full wp-image-232" title="Screen shot 2011-06-30 at
2.17.22 PM" alt=""
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Screen-shot-2011-06-30-at-2.17.22-PM.png"
width="410" height="235" /></a>As the subject of the card indicates, the
Fortune Society’s clients and a majority of its employees are formerly
incarcerated ex-convicts.  The Fortune Society is a non-profit organization
whose mission is to help ex-cons successfully re-enter society and become
productive members of it. It does this by providing programs in areas like
family services, job training and transitional services.  The society also
participates in the ATI or Alternative To Incarceration program which is a
range of life stabilizing programs tailored to meet the needs of the offender,
such as mental health, substance abuse or vocational training, while serving
out their sentence under strict supervision with the ultimate goal of reducing
re-offending.

According to our card, members of the Fortune Society came and spoke at an
event at <a href="http://www.emerson.edu/">Emerson College</a> in the spring
of 1969.  At the time the Fortune Society, which was founded in 1967, was
still a fledgling organization.  It was in 1969 that the organization began
its first core unit,
education.

This <a
href="http://fortunesociety.org/learn-more/what-is-fortune/timeline/">timeline</a>
shows how the organization has grown over the years.  The Fortune Society got
its start as an outgrowth of a play, Fortune and Men’s Eyes, which was
produced by the society’s founder David Rothenberg.  After the performance,
the audience would stay and discuss issues related to incarceration with the
cast.  From there Rothenberg began receiving increasing numbers of requests
for assistance and advocacy from formerly incarcerated individuals.  This
evolved into the
organization.

Do you have any experience with the Fortune Society?  Were you at the event at
Emerson College in May of 1969?  Please tell us about
it.

References:
<ul>
	<li>Fortune Society: Building People, not Prisons. Homepage accessed June 30,
2011. <a
href="http://fortunesociety.org/">http://fortunesociety.org/</a></li>
</ul>