# William Gilday and the Brighton Bank Heist, 1970

<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Gilday.jpg"><img
class="alignright size-full wp-image-198" title="Gilday" alt=""
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Gilday.jpg"
width="300" height="210" /></a>To shamelessly echo <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/2011/05/12/abcd/#more-19">the words of
fellow intern and blogger Allison Pekel</a>, one of the smaller but still very
real pleasures of taking part in the Boston TV News Project is the frequent
and serependitous discovery of interesting (and, lets be honest, not so
interesting) local events, people, and places from the past forty-odd years
that I would have otherwise never
encountered.

Entering data for even 75 of the most bare-bones cards can mean that you’ll
bump into 30 or 40 different news stories, which is a virtual feast for anyone
with the slightest interest in history and web surfing. Recently, while
working with <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WHDH_%28TV%29">WHDH</a>
(“Channel 5”) cards from 1968-1971, I came across a series of cards describing
the story of a one <strong>William Gilday and his dramatic
arrest</strong>.

The story, which is far too long and complicated to completely recount here,
spanning decades and state boundaries, goes something like this. On the
morning of September 23, 1970, five robbers held up a Brighton branch of the
State Street Bank and escaped with $26,000 in cash, leaving a veteran police
officer, Walter Schroeder, mortally wounded with a bullet in his back.<!--more
read more...--> One of the suspects, a 21 year-old ex-convict by the name of
Robert Valeri, was identified using bank photographs and later arrested that
night at his home in Somerville. While in custody, Valeri was remarkably
compliant with officials, providing the identities and known whereabouts of
those involved. They were: <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanley_Ray_Bond">Stanley Bond</a>, 26, an
ex-convict enrolled at Brandeis University as part of a special prison
program; <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Katherine_Ann_Power">Katherine
Power</a>, 21, a Brandeis senior who, along with one of the other five
suspects, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Susan_Edith_Saxe">Susan
Saxe</a>, 21, was active in organizing protests for a student committee known
as the National Student Strike Force; and William “Lefty” Gilday, 41, a
then-recent parolee and former Minor League pitcher for the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_Rangers_%28baseball%29#Washington_Senators_.281961.E2.80.931971.29">Washington
Senators</a>.

By the following day, September 24th, Officer Schroeder would be dead; the
work of five ‘traditional’ bandits would emerge in local newspapers and
newscasts as that of five “revolutionary type individuals”; and the four-day,
interstate police chase of the suspected shooter, William “Lefty” Gilday,
would begin. Boston Police Commissioner Edmund L. McNamara held a press
conference that day in which he stated candidly, though without “documented
evidence,” that the robbery and murder was not an individual act but “a
conspiracy involving more than these five [suspects].” McNamara, working off
what Valeri had told him, insisted that the five were involved in a radical
campus
organization.

While police in Boston raided the homes of Power and Bond, finding weaponry
and equipment missing from the <a
href="http://maps.google.com/maps?q=57+Low+Street+Newburyport,+MA+01950-4048&amp;oe=utf-8&amp;client=firefox-a&amp;gl=us&amp;z=16">National
Guard Armory in Newburyport, Massachusetts</a> which had been bombed the
previous week, Massachusetts and New Hampshire state police converged on <a
href="http://maps.google.com/maps?q=hampton+beach,+nh&amp;oe=utf-8&amp;client=firefox-a&amp;gl=us&amp;z=14">Hampton
Beach, New Hampshire</a>, where Gilday was reportedly seen eating in a
restaurant. He eluded police for the night, and the following morning
(September 25th) Gilday confronted an elderly woman at her home at gunpoint
and forced her to drive him to Salem, New Hampshire. Leaving the woman in
Salem, Gilday then headed towards Lowell only to be identified by police en
route. What followed was a massive, hour-long pursuit involving “about 100
police cars” near state lines. Gilday was again able to dodge the police,
abandoning the Hampton Beach woman’s car and forcefully occupying another in
Wilmington, Massachusetts—this time owned by a local Ford dealer who managed
to jump out at an opportune time. Gilday escaped back into New Hampshire, then
back into Massachusetts, despite over 300 police officers scanning the area
with helicopters and K-9
units.

<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/gilday2.jpg"><img
class="alignright size-full wp-image-199" title="gilday2" alt=""
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/gilday2.jpg"
width="290" height="203" /></a>Gilday was arrested on Monday, September 28.
After hiding for more than 30 hours in a cellar in Haverhill, Massachusetts,
Gilday occupied the home of a local family, the Huberdeaus, spending the night
there on Sunday. The following morning Gilday took the Huberdeau family car on
a route headed southwest with two of the children taken as hostages. The
family left behind in Haverhill, however, notified the police, and a roadblock
was set up in Billings Square in Worcester after a long period of
surveillance. There was nowhere for Gilday to
escape.

Based on Valeri’s statements to Boston police, which suggested that Power,
Bond, and Saxe would likely be flying interstate, the FBI got involved
sometime after Gilday’s wild high-speed chase on September 25th, linking the
suspects to at least four other robberies across the country. In the end, Bond
was arrested in Colorado on a plane bound for Chicago that Sunday, Gilday in
Worcester, another Brandeis student that week as an accessory to the crime,
and eventually Saxe in Philadelphia in 1975. Katherine Power fully eluded
police for 23 years, changing her name and raising a family in Oregon until <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/1993/09/17/us/a-conscience-haunted-by-a-radical-s-crime.html">she
turned herself in willingly in
1993</a>.

Although all four of the Brandeis students were actively engaged in
anti-Vietnam organizations on campus, Bond was understood to be the ringleader
of the group’s revolutionary motives. Self-proclaimed the commander-in-chief
of the Revolutionary Action Force-East (Valeri was supposedly the leader of
RAF-West), Stanley Bond was the only person implicated in all of the group’s
alleged crimes. <strong>The group’s mission had been to disrupt the activities
of the U.S. military in protest against the Vietnam War, with bank robberies
serving as one source of funding. </strong> Bond’s relationship with Power and
Saxe was deemed primarily political and romantic, and most reports described
Bond as having been a manipulating presence in the two woman’s lives. Valeri
and Gilday were believed to have associated with Bond for what most considered
‘pragmatic’
reasons.

Providing a veritable pastiche of an early 1970s American culture polarized by
the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kent_State_Shootings">Kent State
shootings</a> and the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vietnam_war">Vietnam War</a>, these five or
six cards, after a little secondary research, really do offer a unique
perspective on a complicated period in history. I look forward to viewing the
original tape to say the least. In the meantime, however, I highly recommend
reading the series of <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1970/10/5/a-bank-is-robbed-a-cop/">articles
put out by The Harvard Crimson</a> in 1970 that cover the crime. It is perhaps
the most thoroughly written piece of journalism regarding the crime and its
investigation that I have encountered, and much of my research was gleaned
from
them.

Do you remember William “Lefty” Gilday and the Brighton bank
heist?
Can you remember any other local incidents from this time period where
violence—or even the threat of violence—was used to make a political
statement?
Have you seen anything like this
recently?

<strong>References:</strong>
<ul>
	<li>Anglin, Robert. “Witness says Valeri made deal to implicate Gilday.”
Boston Globe 3/3/1972: 3.
Print.</li>
	<li>Blake, Andrew. “McNamara Links ‘Radical Types’ To Robbery, Officer’s
Slaying.” Boston Globe 9/27/1970: 1.
Print.</li>
	<li>——. “Suspect ‘Declares War on US.’” Boston Globe 10/2/1970: 1.
Print.</li>
	<li>“Chronology of murder, robbery and search for Gilday.” Boston Globe
9/27/1970: 25.
Print.</li>
	<li>Jacobs, Scott W. and Matthew B. McCarthy. “<a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1970/10/5/a-bank-is-robbed-a-cop/">A
Bank Is Robbed, A Cop Is Killed, A Movement Is Hung</a>.” The Harvard Crimson
10/5/1970.
Web.</li>
	<li>——. “<a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1970/10/6/when-the-trial-for-these-suspects/">When
the trial for these suspects ends, people are going to be very bewildered
about... 'why?</a>'” The Harvard Crimson 10/6/1970.
Web.</li>
</ul>