# Boston Sports Stars: Tennis Players

[caption id="attachment_1170" align="alignright" width="152"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/305px-Navratilova-PragueOpen2006-05_cropped.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1170"
title="305px-Navratilova-PragueOpen2006-05_cropped" alt="Martina Navratilova"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/305px-Navratilova-PragueOpen2006-05_cropped-152x300.jpg"
width="152" height="300" /></a> Martina Navratilova, former Boston Lobster.
Courtesy Wikimedia
Commons[/caption]

As I went through cataloguing the WCVB assignments sheet database, I was
slightly startled by the number of stories I was seeing simply called
“Lobsters.” Then there was one called “Lobsters Workout” and I started to
realize that maybe these were not about the animal lobsters (as cute as little
lobsters lifting dumbbells and riding station bikes would be).  Turns out
there’s a sports team, a tennis team to be precise, called the<a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_Lobsters"> Boston Lobsters</a>, who
are the New England <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_TeamTennis">World TeamTennis
(WTT)</a> Pro League Team.  <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martina_Navratilova">Martina
Navratilova</a> was a long time player for the team, and <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billie_Jean_King">Billie Jean King
</a>played for another team in the league, the New York
Apples.

Coincidentally, the same time I was figuring out that we have a professional
tennis team here in Boston, a friend of mine was applying to work as an
archivist for nearby <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Longwood_Cricket_Club">Longwood Cricket
Club</a>. That triggered something in my brain, and I realized that I had seen
a lot of records about Longwood, some mentioning tennis specifically, so I
decided to look into that
too.

If I were a more avid tennis fan, I would probably have realized right away,
but as it is, I had to do a little research to learn that Longwood Cricket
Club became the permanent home of the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Pro_Tennis_Championships">U.S. Pro
Tennis (aka World Pro) Championship</a>. Being able to cover this national
sports event locally, we have some pretty impressive footage and even
interviews with some of the tennis stars who competed. We have stories about
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jimmy_Connors">Jimmy Connors </a>winning
in 1976, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_ashe">Arthur Ashe</a>
winning in 1977, and <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greer_Stevens">Greer Stevens</a> winning in
1979.  We have at least 2 interviews with Billie Jean King. There’s also one
with Martina Navratilova about <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ren%C3%A9e_Richards">Renee Richards</a>
playing in the women’s league. This was a controversial story because Renee
Richard is a transsexual, who previously played in the men’s league, and was,
at first, barred from playing in the women’s league. After disputing the ban,
the New York Supreme Court ruled to allow her to
play.

These amazing tennis stories are just fraction of the sports stories we have
in our collections, many of which include interviewees with the athletes and
coaches. If you have a favorite Boston Sports star, make sure you search for
them in our catalog, when it goes up, so you can find the awesome sports
footage we have to share. And remember, our collection spans from 1960-12000,
so even if your favorites don't play anymore, you might be able to relive some
of their careers through our
footage.

<strong>References:</strong>

World TeamTennis. “ Billie Jean King,” <em>World TeamTennis</em>, accessed
August 13, 2012. <a
href="http://www.wtt.com/page.aspx?article_id=1936">http://www.wtt.com/page.aspx?article_id=1936</a>

Glitz. “Second set: for transgender tennis star Renee Richards, the generation
gap looms larger than the gender gap. Her latest book, No Way Renee, continues
the story of her "notorious" life.” <em>The Free Library</em>, accessed August
13, 2012. “<a
href="http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Second+set%3A+for+transgender+tennis+star+Renee+Richards,+the...-a0162361305">http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Second+set%3A+for+transgender+tennis+star+Renee+Richards,+the...-a0162361305</a>

Zeigler, Cyd, Jr. “Renee Richards wins right to play in women’s U.S. Open.”
<em>OutSports</em>, accessed August 13, 2012. <a
href="http://outsports.com/jocktalkblog/2011/09/21/moment-12-renee-richards-wins-right-to-play-in-womens-u-s-open/">http://outsports.com/jocktalkblog/2011/09/21/moment-12-renee-richards-wins-right-to-play-in-womens-u-s-open/</a>

Walder, Joyce. “At Home with Renee Richards: The Lady Regrets.” <em>The New
York Times, </em>accessed August 13, 2012.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/02/01/garden/01renee.html?pagewanted=all