# Jimmy Carter almost stops wedding 

Having been working with these collections for over a year, the types of
stories that stick out to me has changed. When I first started I mainly
noticed ones I recognized from my previous knowledge of Massachusetts’
history, or ones that struck a more serious note, like violent protests or
murders. However, everyone once in a while a story will just seem simply
absurd. Imagine my surprise when I found myself typing into our FileMaker
database,

<em>Lynn Wedding Plans Foiled: by none other than James Earl Carter.  Carter’s
visit conflicts with the wedding because the church is across the street and
the security all want to close the church. The wedding will, however, go
on.</em>

[caption id="attachment_1177" align="alignright" width="244"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/488px-JimmyCarterPortrait2.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1177" title="488px-JimmyCarterPortrait2"
alt="President Jimmy Carter"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/488px-JimmyCarterPortrait2-244x300.jpg"
width="244" height="300" /></a> President Jimmy Carter, courtesy Wikimedia
Commons[/caption]

While I know from current news coverage (and watching a lot of <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_West_Wing">The West Wing)</a> that the
president’s security can be pretty tight, and closing down a nearby church
would not necessarily be out of the question, I can just not imagine being
told that there was a chance my wedding would be postponed because <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jimmy_Carter">Jimmy Carter</a> was going to
be across the street. To verify that this wasn’t some crazy prank of the news
team (these WCVB guys are pretty entertaining) I went looking for some proof
that Carter had actually been in <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lynn,_MA">Lynn</a> that day. I’m glad I did
because that search led me to the coolest resource I’ve found in a while, the
daily diary of Jimmy Carter, while he was president, as kept by one of his
staff, and available online at: <a
href="http://www.jimmycarterlibrary.gov/documents/diary/">http://www.jimmycarterlibrary.gov/documents/diary/</a>

This experience gave me a new appreciation for my job here at ‘GBH, knowing
that these news stories will forever keep me amused and sometimes provide the
opportunity to discover even more than I expect
to.