# Bruce Bolling, Boston City Councilor

[caption id="attachment_2349" align="alignleft" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/barcode104111_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2349" alt="Bruce Bolling interview"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/barcode104111_thumbnail-300x202.jpg"
width="300" height="202" /></a> Bruce Bolling interview about his possible
mayoral candidacy. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_Q43SYAWYEW3UQGL">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-6baa8716-4aa8-76c1-52a0-2f151568e723"><a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruce_Bolling">Bruce Bolling</a> was the
first black Boston City Council President. He came from a prominent political
family; his father Royal Bolling, Sr. was a state senator, and his older
brother Royal Bolling, Jr. was a state representative. He was elected to the
Council in 1981 and was elected its president in 1986. By the late 1980s,
people started <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_Q43SYAWYEW3UQGL">predicting Bolling
would be Boston’s first black mayor</a>. He ran for the office in 1993, when
he lost to <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Menino">Thomas
Menino</a> (a race in which our very own Ten O’Clock News anchor, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christopher_Lydon">Christopher Lydon</a>,
also
ran).</p>
<p dir="ltr">In his time on the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_City_Council">City Council</a>,
Bolling was an advocate for the African American community working together
and fighting to have its voice heard in Boston politics. In the late 1980s
members of the African American community living in Roxbury challenged that
position. Community leaders proposed a plan where Roxbury would divest from
Boston, and set up its own municipality called Mandela. The proposal failed in
1986. Later, in 1988 the same leaders redoubled their efforts and tried once
more. It failed again, and Roxbury continues to be a part of the City of
Boston. As the City Council President Bolling fought against this proposal,
urging people to fight to be represented within Boston, rather than abandoning
it. In this <a href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_UBYGAM8OO40Y1AA">Ten
O’Clock News report</a>, Marcus Jones features an argument Bolling made
against Mandela on the Phil Donahue talk show, where he says that the new
leadership of Boston is here and their time has
come.</p>


[caption id="attachment_2348" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/barcode105381_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2348" alt="Bruce Bolling press conference"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/barcode105381_thumbnail-300x202.jpg"
width="300" height="202" /></a> Bruce Bolling argues for economic development
in Roxbury. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_HU3KF0JQAC8LRIH">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr">Later in his career, Bolling continued to work for fair treatment
of all Boston citizens. In this <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_8I1UFLSVHMDZN8M">news report</a>, he
supports a fair housing proposal worked on by the City Council and Mayor Ray
Flynn. By 1989, Bolling and many of the Roxbury community leaders he had
fought against about Mandela, were back on the same side, fighting to bring
economic development to Roxbury. This <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=parcel+18&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">series
of reports</a> documents the combined efforts of these leaders to bring the
Massachusetts Water Resources Authority headquarters to Roxbury, where it
would lead to jobs and better housing for the surrounding
community.</p>
<p dir="ltr">The stories in our collections that have been digitized so far
show many of the political battles that Bolling fought during his career. In
the rest of our collections there are many other stories about Bolling,
highlighting other parts of his career, and perhaps even shedding more light
on him as a person. If you’d like to see more of Bruce Bolling, you can <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;non_video=yes&amp;q=bruce+bolling&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">read
through our other stories</a> and select any that you’d like to sponsor for
digitization.</p>