# New England Aquarium Saves Baby Seals

Baby seals! They’re so cute! I was going to write an entire post mainly
gushing about how cute they are and encouraging you to watch this <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/2394_09467_1">great news story</a> that
features several baby seals doing super adorable things. And, I guess, I’m
still doing that; however, after a little research, I realized there was more
to this story than just how cute these marine mammals can
be.

[caption id="attachment_2552" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/2394_09467_1_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2552" alt="Baby seal image"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/2394_09467_1_thumbnail-300x225.jpg"
width="300" height="225" /></a> Woman holding a baby seal in front of the New
England Aquarium. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/2394_09467_1">full
story</a>.[/caption]

The 1975-76 winter was a harsh one. In the late spring of 1976 several seal
pups were found along the Massachusetts and Maine coasts, separated from their
mothers. A seal pup normally stays with its mother until it is six months old
and can live on its own. These baby seals couldn’t survive on their own, so
the <a href="http://www.neaq.org/index.php">New England Aquarium</a> took them
in and fed them a substitute for seal milk (mainly heavy cream and cottage
cheese). The Aquarium didn’t have a team dedicated to animal rescue, so the
regular staff cared for the seals in addition to their normal
duties.

Caring for the seals ended up being an around the clock job. They had to be
fed 5 times a day at equal intervals, which meant overnight. Rather than
having staff drive in to work in the middle of the night after only a few
hours of sleep, several staff members took seals home, and fed and cared for
them
there.

Now, one might ask, “Isn’t that illegal?” Technically, it was. <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marine_Mammal_Protection_Act_of_1972">The
Marine Mammal Protection Act</a> was signed into law in 1972. Under that law
seals, sea lions, dolphins, whales, and a few other marine mammals are the
responsibility of <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Oceanic_and_Atmospheric_Administration">National
Oceanic Atmospheric Association</a> (NOAA), while other marine mammals, like
sea otters and polar bears, are the responsibility of the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Fish_and_Wildlife_Service">U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service</a>. That’s all good to know now, but in 1976, just four
years after the law was signed, its regulations were only loosely in place. It
basically boiled down to, The New England Aquarium rescued the animals, so
they just did what they thought was
best.

This anecdote comes from Paul Sieswerda, who, along with his wife Candi, took
in a seal named Cecil. Paul worked at the NE Aquarium in 1976, and later at
the New York Aquarium. Most recently he is a seal-watching tour guide on the
American Princess cruise boat in New York Bay, and the founder of <a
href="http://gothamwhale.com/">Gotham Whale</a>, an organization that studies
and educates other about marine mammals through citizen science. Citizen
science is a method that allows everyday people to make systematic
observations and contribute to scientific studies. Read more here about Paul’s
work and citizen science
here.

<strong>References:</strong>
<p dir="ltr"
id="docs-internal-guid-b331959b-d5d6-04ac-ce59-456056c4f983">Salinger, Calla.
“Meet your seal mate.” New York Post (New York, NY), February 10, 2012. <a
href="http://nypost.com/2012/02/10/meet-your-seal-mate/">http://nypost.com/2012/02/10/meet-your-seal-mate/</a></p>
<p dir="ltr">Sieswerda, Paul. “Candi and Cecil: A Seal in the Bathtub.” Gotham
Whale. <a
href="http://gothamwhale.com/cecil.html">http://gothamwhale.com/cecil.html</a></p>