# Editorial cartoonists at the Harvard Kennedy School, 1995

By Jason
Ong

[caption id="attachment_1072" align="alignleft" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/editoral_cartoonists_1.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1072" title="editoral_cartoonists_1"
alt="Cartoonists at Harvard Kennedy School"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/editoral_cartoonists_1-300x225.png"
width="300" height="225" /></a> Cartoonists at Harvard Kennedy School, 1995
Courtesy
CCTV[/caption]

In 1995, a group of editorial cartoonists came to the Harvard Kennedy School:
Jeff Danziger, Jerry Holbert, Etta Hulme, Doug Marlette, and Paul Szep. At the
time, Danziger, Holbert, and Szep were locally known as cartoonists for the
Christian Science Monitor, the Boston Herald, and the Boston Globe,
respectively (Holbert is still with the Herald, but Danziger and Szep have
left their
papers).

The editorial cartoon is a challenging art form: artists have a few panels,
many times just one, to present an opinion about a newsworthy topic. Sometimes
these cartoons don’t even have any dialogue, but their message is perfectly
clear. Artists use exaggeration and metaphor to illustrate their points. I
chose to watch this program from CCTV’s archives because I’ve been interested
in editorial cartoons for a long time; they’re one of the first things I look
at when I read a
newspaper.

Each cartoonist showed some of their favorite cartoons. Doug Marlette showed a
couple which his paper had refused to publish. For example, when Howard Stern
ran for Governor of New York, Marlette drew him in an open trenchcoat,
flashing the Statue of Liberty. But other censored cartoons weren't risqué at
all. After Japanese media reported that American workers were lazy, Marlette
drew a pair of American workers who had fallen asleep while painting a "Buy
American" sign. There was nothing in that cartoon that was really
inappropriate, and it was pretty clever, so why wasn’t it
published?

[caption id="attachment_1083" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/editorial_cartoonists_paul_szep.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1083" title="editorial_cartoonists_paul_szep"
alt="Paul Szep"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/editorial_cartoonists_paul_szep-300x225.png"
width="300" height="225" /></a> Paul Szep. Courtesy
CCTV.[/caption]

Politicians are big targets for editorial cartoons, and every artist in the
panel showed at least one cartoon that targeted Newt Gingrich, who was at the
time Speaker of the House in a Republican-controlled Congress. Paul Szep
showed one of his cartoons that depicted Gingrich and other Republicans as
mobsters taking the Democratic President Bill Clinton “for a ride,” and said
that “the Newt years” would be very good for
cartoonists.

[caption id="attachment_1084" align="alignleft" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/editorial_cartoonists_etta_hulme.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1084" title="editorial_cartoonists_etta_hulme"
alt="Etta Hulme"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/editorial_cartoonists_etta_hulme-300x225.png"
width="300" height="225" /></a> Etta Hulme. Courtesy
CCTV.[/caption]

And there was a throwaway “If they only knew” moment: Etta Hulme, a cartoonist
for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, said something very similar before her
presentation: with George “Shrub” Bush as her governor, there was hope for
editorial cartoonists in Texas. Of course, five years later, George “W.” Bush,
as he was better known, would be in editorial cartoons across the country and
around the
world…