# Bill Baird, Contraceptive Scandal

Update: As of October 21, 2013 there is <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_QNV6LC2VR0A1TFQ">video</a> related to
this post on our
website.

Recently there has been much discussion about women's rights relating to birth
control and abortion.  These discussions have been going on for decades and in
the 1960s, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Baird_%28activist%29">William "Bill"
Baird</a> was a major player in these
conversations.

Bill Baird is the founder of the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pro_choice">Pro Choice</a> League, and he
established the nation's first abortion facility in 1964.  He also created the
first <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birth_control">birth control</a>
and abortion center on a college campus.  He was sent to jail for three months
for teaching about birth control and distributing abortion literature in New
York and New Jersey.  While working on cataloging the news records, I came
across many that discuss Baird's time in jail, his selling of contraception
and daring the police to arrest him, and the demonstrations supporting his
cause.

On April 6, 1967, Baird gave a lecture at <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_University">Boston University</a> to
more than 2,500 people about birth control and abortion.  Prior to the
lecture, almost 700 students at BU reached out to Baird, asking him to come to
Massachusetts to challenge a nineteenth center law that denied unmarried
people access to birth control and abortion information.  At the end of the
lecture, Baird handed an unmarried 19-year-old woman a free condom and a
package of contraceptive foam, and Baird was then arrested by the Boston
Police for this move.  He was charged with 2 felonies: publicly displaying
birth control and abortion devices and giving away birth control to an
unmarried woman.  He served three months at the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Street_Jail">Charles Street Jail
</a>(now the Liberty Hotel), and the case eventually went to the Supreme
Court.

On March 22, 1972, the<a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eisenstadt_v._Baird"> Supreme Court
decided</a> in Baird's favor, which led to the overturning of similar statues
in 26 other states.  Associate Justice William O. Douglas wrote, "while the
teachings of Bill Baird and Galileo are of a different order, the suppression
of either is equally repugnant."  Almost a year later, the Court legalized
abortion in <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roe_v._Wade">Roe v.
Wade</a>, quoting Baird's case six times in its legalization of abortion. 
Baird continued to be an activist thorough the 70s and 80s, and still speaks
about the cause
today.

<strong>References:</strong>

About Us. (n.d.). Retrieved March 15, 2012, from
http://prochoiceleague.org/about.html

Baird, B. (n.d.). The people versus Bill Baird: struggling for your right to
privacy. Retrieved March 15, 2012, from
http://www.thefreelibrary.com/The+people+versus+Bill+Baird%3A+struggling+for+your+right+to+privacy.-a019217217

Baird, J. (n.d.). Birth control turns thirty-five. Retrieved March 15, 2012,
from
http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Birth+control+turns+thirty-five.-a0160105519

Eisenstadt v. Baird. (n.d.). Retrieved March 15, 2012, from
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eisenstadt_v._Baird

Eisenstadt v. Baird. (n.d.). Retrieved March 15, 2012, from
http://caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/scripts/getcase.pl?court=US&amp;vol=405&amp;invol=438