# Louise Day Hicks, Boston City Councilor

[caption id="attachment_2308" align="alignleft" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/401_BPL_03LTC4N3JG1CIRL_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2308" alt="Louise Day Hicks"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/401_BPL_03LTC4N3JG1CIRL_thumbnail-300x221.jpg"
width="300" height="221" /></a> Boston School Committee Member Hicks
interviewed about the 1965 Racial Imbalance Act. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_03LTC4N3JG1CIRL">full story</a>,
which starts at
00:21:30.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr"><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louise_Day_Hicks">Louise
Day Hicks</a> is a famous name in Boston and across the country. She is
probably the best known opponent of the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Court-ordered_busing">court-ordered
busing</a> in Boston. Over the course of her career, Ms. Hicks served in many
offices, including as a member of the Boston City Council, which makes her the
second city councilor is our series of profiles highlighting these influential
Boston figures. Before her time on the Council, she ran for and won a seat on
the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_Public_Schools">Boston School
Committee</a> in 1961. She served on the Committee for many years even though
her own children attended parochial schools. In 1969 she was elected to the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_City_Council">Boston City
Council</a>, and then in 1971 she won a seat in the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/US_House_of_Representatives">US House of
Representatives</a>. Although her national political career was short lived
(she was only in the House for one term), when she returned to Boston, she
once again became an active participant in local politics, winning back a seat
on the City Council. She served as the President of the City Council in
1976.</p>
<p dir="ltr">There are many <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=louise+day+hicks&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">Louise
Day Hicks stories</a> in our collections, although most have not yet been
digitized. From the few that have already been digitized, we can see footage
of Ms. Hicks from both her time on the Boston School Committee and the Boston
City
Council.</p>
<p dir="ltr">Within a <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_03LTC4N3JG1CIRL">compilation reel
of stories</a> on the King School from 1968, there is a short piece (starting
at 00:21:30)  where John Henning interviews Ms. Hicks about her proposal to
repeal the Racial Imbalance Act. Massachusetts passed the act into law in
1965, effectively ordering schools to desegregate at the risk of losing state
funding. Ms. Hicks argues that neighborhood schools are better for all
involved. By 1974, at the start of court-ordered busing in Boston, Ms. Hicks,
was on the City Council. In this <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/2394_00900">WCVB story</a>, there is an
interview with her about the public outcry against busing and the number of
calls her office has received on the
matter.</p>


[caption id="attachment_2307" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/barcode101986_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2307" alt="Louise Day Hicks"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/barcode101986_thumbnail-300x202.jpg"
width="300" height="202" /></a> City Councilor Hicks interviewed on a curfew
proposal in 1976. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_ZHAKPDN4X1TA5Q1">full
story</a>.[/caption]

Later in her career, in 1976, <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_ZHAKPDN4X1TA5Q1">Ms. Hicks is
interviewed</a> in her role as City Councilor on another topic. This piece is
an unedited interview conducted by Steve Curwood. She explains her support of
a proposed curfew, which has been asked for by the senior citizens and
firefighters of Boston. Ms. Hicks is not sure of the success of such a
measure, but thinks it’s a good idea to try it out, in case it can increase
the safety of the city. She hopes that police won’t use the curfew as a way to
harass young people, and states that she will vote to repeal it if that
happens.

Both of these pieces shows an example of Ms. Hick’s politics and values. As
such a well-known member of the city government, Ms. Hick was involved in many
policy debates and other important city affairs. To find out more about her
views and work, sponsor the digitization of one of the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;non_video=yes&amp;q=louise+day+hicks&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">other
stories about
her</a>.