# Women Construction Workers

<p dir="ltr">For many years now, women have been making strides toward equal
employment. The Boston TV News Digital Library has <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=women%27s+lib&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">reels
and reels of original footage</a> about the women’s liberation movement, many
focusing on equal job opportunities in particular, including <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_404UQAGFE6MABTH">coverage of the
Women’s Strike for Equality</a>.  The <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Women%27s_Strike_for_Equality">Strike for
Equality</a> was a series of demonstrations around the United States,
sponsored by the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Organization_for_Women">National
Organization for Women</a>. In addition to fighting for equal opportunities in
the job market, these women called for more political rights and social
equality, especially in marriages. At the time there were both men and women
who responded negatively to these causes, thinking that women could not handle
what they were asking for and/or would lose their femininity and delicacy if
they got equal
opportunities.</p>


[caption id="attachment_2324" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/Screen-shot-2014-02-14-at-11.47.54-AM.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2324" alt="Woman Construction Worker"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/Screen-shot-2014-02-14-at-11.47.54-AM-300x244.png"
width="300" height="244" /></a> Interview with woman construction worker in
1970. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_3VISGC6U36S8JW8">full
story</a>.[/caption]

Along with the original footage in the collection, we also have a <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_3VISGC6U36S8JW8">short edited
story</a> covering a specific dispute, which occurred in 1970. Rosemarie
VanCamp reports about a construction contractor who was told by an inspector
from City Hall that the female construction workers on his team couldn’t work.
VanCamp interviews two women construction workers who are angry about being
told they can’t work. They say that of course they can do the type of work;
women have been doing it for hundreds of years. VanCamp also seeks out the
opposing view, interviewing a City Hall representative. The actual details of
the dispute are somewhat unclear. VanCamp says there is no legal reason that
women aren’t allowed to work construction jobs, unless they are required to
lift more than 40 pounds. The women construction workers respond to that
regulation, saying that they aren’t required to lift 40 pounds, but they
could, and so they think the law should be
changed.

I really like this news story because VanCamp lets the people involved speak
for themselves. Even though it’s only comprised of short blurbs from each
party, the tone and attitude comes through. It really captures the feeling of
the time, or at least I think it does. Do you agree? Do you know more about
the details of this story, or have other similar stories to
share?