# John Kerry in Cambridge, 1996

by Jason
Ong

[caption id="attachment_1679" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/john_kerry_outside_cctv.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1679" alt="John Kerry"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/john_kerry_outside_cctv-300x225.png"
width="300" height="225" /></a> John Kerry outside CCTV, 1996. Courtesy of
CCTV[/caption]

<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Kerry">John Kerry</a> has just been
appointed as the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Secretary_of_State">United
States Secretary of State</a>, after 28 years of representing Massachusetts in
the United States Senate. He was well-known during his time as a Senator, from
his service on the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/US_Senate_Foreign_Relations_Committee">Foreign
Relations Committee</a>, and of course, his 2004 Presidential run against <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_W._Bush">George W.
Bush</a>.

Kerry's longtime interest in foreign affairs led many to speculate that he
would be <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Obama">President Obama</a>'s
eventual choice to replace <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hilary_clinton">Hillary Clinton</a>. The
Secretary of State occupies the most prestigious position in the Cabinet and
is perceived as an official representative of the United States in any foreign
country.

In 1996, Cambridge celebrated their 150th Anniversary with a parade, which was
covered by CCTV. During the parade, then-Senator Kerry walked by to shake
hands with spectators along the route. When asked to pause and speak for our
camera, he greeted the audience with a few words of Spanish, remarked on the
diversity and creativity of the Cambridge community, and then had to continue
on to catch up with other parade walkers. His speech lasted only a minute, but
it was interesting to see this now-nationally prominent figure right outside
our familiar CCTV
studio.