# Mike Wallace at the Harvard Kennedy School, 1995

by Jason
Ong

[caption id="attachment_952" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/mike_wallace.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-952" title="mike_wallace" alt="Mike Wallace"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/mike_wallace-300x225.png"
width="300" height="225" /></a> Mike Wallace at Harvard Kennedy School, 1995
Courtesy
CCTV[/caption]

Broadcast journalist <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mike_Wallace_%28journalist%29">Mike
Wallace</a> died this month. Although he had a career of about 70 years in
radio and TV, he was probably best known for his work at CBS News,
particularly on <a
href="http://www.cbsnews.com/2100-500164_162-828230.html">"60
Minutes."</a>

In 1995, he received the Goldsmith Career Award for Excellence in Journalism
from the <a href="http://www.hks.harvard.edu/">Harvard Kennedy School</a>. He
came to the School to accept the award and to give a short speech. I watched
CCTV's footage of the event, and some interesting points came
up.

At the time, polls showed that the news media didn't have a very good
impression among the American public; a lot of people considered it
untrustworthy. In his speech, Wallace proposed the reformation of the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_News_Council">National News
Council</a> (which had last operated in the 1970s and 1980s before being
disbanded) as an independent, objective organization that would look into
complaints that any news story was unfair or biased. Wallace believed that
this would increase public trust in the news media. However, things have
turned out
differently.

Both <a href="http://www.foxnews.com/">Fox News Channel </a>and <a
href="http://www.msnbc.msn.com/">MSNBC</a> launched the next year, in 1996.
Over time, they've become known as the "conservative" and "liberal" news
channels, respectively. Some people say that having news channels that are so
diametrically opposed guarantees that people will only watch (and trust) the
one channel that they think fits their views, and will automatically distrust
the other (or perhaps any other)
channel.

Wallace might not have predicted this much of a schism, but he did briefly
touch on the rise of conservative media outlets. There was a perception even
back then that the mainstream media had a liberal bias, and talk radio was
starting to grow in popularity among conservatives as a sort of retaliatory
measure. He mentioned <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rush_Limbaugh">Rush Limbaugh</a> in
passing, to describe him as a vaudevillian figure, but compelling enough to
draw an
audience.