# Union Struggles at B.U., 1979

Working more or less chronologically through the WCVB assignment sheet
records, it is much easier to follow stories linearly. In the middle of the
April 1979 records, I started to notice a building story about a faculty
strike at <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_University">Boston
University</a>. Strikes and pickets are pretty common in these collections, so
it didn’t seem especially notable. After a week or so of those stories, there
were more about pickets at B.U., but these seemed a little different. They
read, “On whether faculty will cross the picket lines of the clerical workers”
and “The clerical workers and librarians are out in front of the parking lot
at 881 Commonwealth Avenue trying to stop the professors from entering. 1
person goes to the hospital/several skirmish, good film” and “A.M. problems at
the school with strikers blocking the entrance to the parking lot/then noon
rally/then interview with Bergenheim.” With a final resolution of “It's not
really a settlement, the school has agreed to negotiate with the clerical and
librarian folk, if they all go back to work.” I was confused because I had
thought the faculty had been striking. So why were the clerical workers and
librarians striking, and why were they trying to stop the faculty from getting
onto campus? While the WCVB records had indicated to me that there was some
struggle occurring between the faculty and the clerical workers and
librarians, what I uncovered was a story of solidarity and
support.

According to a <a href="http://www.thecrimson.com/">Harvard Crimson</a>
reporter, feelings towards <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Silber">John Silber</a>, Boston
University President, had been unfriendly since he took the office in 1971.
Apparently he took away faculty and student powers and underpaid professors.
He certainly wasn’t loved by all, demonstrated by the wearing of “Dump Silber”
buttons by those who wanted him to resign. Not everyone required his
resignation, but many faculty did demand substantial contract changes,
including an over 32% salary increase over 3 years. Negotiations between the
faculty union and the Board of Trustees began, and were supposedly finalized
at the end of March 1979. The faculty approved the agreement with a vote of
252 to 17. The board was supposed to approve it next, but at the last minute
they withheld their approval, asking for clarification about several sections
which they claimed were ambiguous. These sections included the date of the end
of the contract, the determining of the salary increases, and a no-strike
clause. In response to this delay, the faculty voted to strike. They were
joined by the clerical workers and librarians, which included around 900 and
20 people, respectively. These workers were striking, not only in sympathy
with the faculty, but mainly to be recognized by the university as unions.
(Their status as unions had been certified by the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Labor_Relations_Board">National
Labor Relations Board</a> in December.) Students also joined these strikes,
prompted by support of their professors and staff, as well as wanting more
student power in the administration. At this point, a huge portion of Boston
University was on strike, working together to achieve better conditions for
all.

This was obviously a major disturbance for typical university operations, so
the administration wanted to clear it up quickly. They had originally
threatened that a strike would result in negation of all agreements that had
been reached, including the salary raises; however, they did not follow
through since they wanted to resolve the faculty problems and get back to
normal right away. They brought in two mediators from the Boston branch of the
<a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_Mediation_and_Conciliation_Service_%28United_States%29">Federal
Mediation and Conciliation Service</a>. In less than a week an agreement had
been reached, again, but this time both parties signed. While the faculty
union had gotten what it wanted, the clerical worker and librarians’ unions
had been ignored thus far. Despite their NLRB certification as unions, B.U.
refused to recognize them as unions or negotiate with them, as they were
appealing the NLRB’s certification, a process which could take over two years.
The clerical workers and librarians voted to continue striking. They picketed
the school trying to stop faculty, students, and all vehicles from entering
campus. While I had originally taken this as a sign of enmity between the
picketers and the faculty, upon reading newspaper articles about the situation
I realized that most of the faculty supported the clerical workers and
librarians’ strike, and showed this support by not crossing the picket line,
rather holding their now resumed classes outside or in buildings off campus.
Faculty members reported that they wanted to support the strikers, but felt
they had a responsibility to their students, especially so close to the end of
the semester, when not going back could mean not finishing a class at all.
Attendance for these classes was good, and the faculty union worked to ensure
that professors would get paid for teaching their classes, even if they were
not held in the assigned classrooms. I wonder if the WCVB stories show this
same solidarity, or if they maybe paint a different side of the
story.

Just days before the strike finally ended, 3 picketers— a union member, a
freshman student, and a local resident who was friends with others of the
picketers— were arrested for disorderly conduct while trying to prevent a
truck from breaching the picket line. Police claimed they were violent, while
picketers said they were not being violent, but were purposefully being very
vocal in an attempt to show their strength. The diversity in the picketers,
some union members, some students, others just sympathizers, again
demonstrates the solidarity of feeling present at this time. Finally, on April
23, 1979 the strikes completely ended, and negotiations between the clerical
workers and librarians unions began. The almost three-week-long upheaval of
university operations had ended, the faculty and staff returned to work, much
happier with their situation. The B.U. PR department said, "We're extremely
pleased to have all our employees back to work… It will be great to have B.U.
back to a full-scale
operation.”

<strong>References:</strong>

Kristof, Nicholas D. “B.U. Employees End Strike; Trustees Promise
Negotiations.” <em>The Harvard Crimson</em>, April 24, 1979. Accessed April 5,
2012. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/24/bu-employees-end-strike-trustees-promise/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/24/bu-employees-end-strike-trustees-promise/</a>

Kristof, Nicholas D. “B.U. Faculty And Trustees Sign Contract.” <em>The
Harvard Crimson</em>, April 14, 1979. Accessed 5, 2012. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/14/bu-faculty-and-trustees-sign-contract/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/14/bu-faculty-and-trustees-sign-contract/</a>

Kristof, Nicholas D. “B.U. Professors Strike Back.” <em>The Harvard
Crimson</em>, April 7, 1979.<em> </em>Accessed on April 5, 2012. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/7/bu-professors-strike-back-ppeace-is/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/7/bu-professors-strike-back-ppeace-is/</a>.

Kristof, Nicholas D. “Classes Resume at B.U. After Faculty Walk-Out.” <em>The
Harvard Crimson</em>, April 18, 1979. Accessed on April 5, 2012.<a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/18/classes-resume-at-bu-after-faculty/">
http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/18/classes-resume-at-bu-after-faculty/</a>

Kristof, Nicholas D. “Mediators Seek Talks to End B.U. Strike.” <em>The
Harvard Crimson</em>, April 11, 1979. Accessed April 5, 2012. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/11/mediators-seek-talks-to-end-bu/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/11/mediators-seek-talks-to-end-bu/</a>

Kristof, Nicholas D. “Police Arrest Three Picketers For Blocking Traffic at
B.U.” <em>The Harvard Crimson</em>, April 21, 1979. Accessed April 5, 2012. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/21/police-arrest-three-picketers-for-blocking/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/21/police-arrest-three-picketers-for-blocking/</a>

Kristof, Nicholas D. “The B.U. Faculty: Striking Back.” <em>The Harvard
Crimson</em>, April 11, 1979. Accessed April 5, 2012.<a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/11/the-bu-faculty-striking-back-pbjbohn/">
http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1979/4/11/the-bu-faculty-striking-back-pbjbohn/</a>