# Controversy over Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Papers at BU

[caption id="attachment_2197" align="alignleft" width="217"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/MLK_US_Info_Agency.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2197" alt="MLK"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/MLK_US_Info_Agency-217x300.jpg"
width="217" height="300" /></a> Martin Luther King, Jr. Courtesy of the US
Information Agency. Click <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=martin+luther+king+jr&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;x=0&amp;y=0&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">here</a>
for more stories on
MLK.[/caption]

Martin Luther King, Jr.'s legacy lives on today, as it probably always will.
Part of that legacy includes his papers, a third of which he donated to Boston
University a few years before his assassination in
1968.

Twenty years after his death, his widow Coretta Scott King, sued Boston
University for possession of the papers. While the University held tight to
the letter from King bestowing ownership of the papers on BU, Mrs. King
claimed that her husband had wanted his papers to eventually join the other
two thirds that are held by the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent
Social Change in Atlanta, Georgia. Her lawyers argued that the letter was not
legally binding as a will, while the University asserted that if Dr. King had
wanted to change the terms of the letter he could have done so at any
time.

[caption id="attachment_2198" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/barcode103067_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2198" alt="BU Student Interview"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/barcode103067_thumbnail-300x202.jpg"
width="300" height="202" /></a> Boston University student interviewed about
the ownership of MLK's papers. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_DI8BBC0EDHHVA6I">full
story</a>.[/caption]

&nbsp;

The case caused quite a controversy, which Ten O'Clock News reporter Marcus
Jones covered in a April 1, 1988 <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_DI8BBC0EDHHVA6I">story</a>. The new
story contains a great overview of the case, as well as interviews with many
BU students about their opinions on the controversy. The students' opinions
vary
widely.

Eventually the case went to trial in 1993. For those interested, you can check
out the official Suffolk Superior Court <a
href="http://masscases.com/cases/sjc/420/420mass52.html">documents</a>. After
a two week trial, the jury voted 10-2 in favor of the University, who still
maintains ownership of the papers to this day. They can be <a
href="http://www.bu.edu/dbin/mlkjr/">accessed</a> through their Howard Gotlieb
Archival Research
Center.

&nbsp;

<strong>References</strong>

"Dr. King's Widow Finally Has Her Day in Court." <em>New York Times</em> (New
York, NY), Apr. 30, 1993. Accessed Jan. 17, 2014. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/1993/04/30/us/dr-king-s-widow-finally-has-her-day-in-court.html">http://www.nytimes.com/1993/04/30/us/dr-king-s-widow-finally-has-her-day-in-court.html</a>

"Widow loses suit for King's papers as jury back Boston University."
<em>Baltimore Sun</em> (Baltimore, MD), May 7, 1993. Accessed Jan. 17, 2014.
<a
href="http://articles.baltimoresun.com/1993-05-07/news/1993127112_1_boston-university-king-papers-social-change">http://articles.baltimoresun.com/1993-05-07/news/1993127112_1_boston-university-king-papers-social-change</a>

&nbsp;