# Howard Marston and the Draft Resistance Movement

[caption id="attachment_2225" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Screen-shot-2014-01-24-at-9.48.04-AM.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2225" alt="Howard Marston and family"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Screen-shot-2014-01-24-at-9.48.04-AM-300x199.png"
width="300" height="199" /></a> Howard Marston Jr., sitting with his mother
and father. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_1H0WD8MWKJ7N2FS">full
story</a>.[/caption]

<a href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_1H0WD8MWKJ7N2FS">Here</a> is an
interesting closeup look at draft resistance during the Vietnam War. While our
collections have a lot of footage of anti-war demonstrations and many
undigitized stories about the draft resistance movement, this story is a
special case. In this 1968 WHDH piece, we see from multiple angles how a young
man’s decision to resist the draft affected him and those around him. Mr.
Howard Marston, Jr., the resistor, and Mr. Howard Marston, Sr., his father,
both speak articulately about his reasons for resisting the draft, and why his
family and neighbors have come to support him. The focus of the story on one
particular person, rather than the whole movement, makes it possible to delve
beyond the (very interesting and wholly worthy of attention) idea of
counterculture youth burning draft cards and escaping to Canada. There were
surely many other draft resisters, some who had different reasons for
objecting than Howard Marston, and just as I relish the specificity of this
story, I’d love to be able to hear their experiences as well. It’s possible we
have more stories with this level of specificity in our collection. If you’re
interested in figuring out if more films like this one exist, take a look
through our records, and contact us about sponsoring the preservation of a
specific
item.

Further research about Howard Marston led me to two articles in from the
Harvard Crimson, which paint a picture of Marston’s role in the draft
resistance movement of the day. These January <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1968/1/10/draft-resistance-movement-hails-new-beginning/">10th</a>
and <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1968/1/19/2-students-face-physicals-today-ptwo/#">19th</a>
stories from 1968 explain Marston’s relationship with the Boston Draft
Resistance Group. They also reveal that although the WHDH TV stories focuses
solely on Marston, he actually refused induction in conjunction with Corey
Brown. Their resistance occurred right after Dr. Benjamin Spock’s indictment
for conspiracy to aid draft dodgers.  Together the two of them were the first
resisters to be supported by peace groups after the indictment, making them
leaders in the movement. The Crimson articles also highlight just how much
Howard Marston Sr. was part of this fight as well. He is mentioned in both
articles, and directly quoted in one as saying, “I take full responsibility
for my son's refusal to kill innocent children in Vietnam. I want to find out
if a dictator has more authority over a young man who's a minor than his
father.”

And if you’d like to learn more about Howard Marston’s story, <a
href="http://www.swarthmore.edu/library/peace/CDGA.A-L/Foley.htm">Swarthmore
College Peace Collection</a> includes the transcript of an interview with
Howard Marston, Jr. in the Michael C. Foley
Collection.