# Remembering Chet Curtis

[caption id="attachment_2218" align="alignleft" width="264"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Screen-shot-2014-01-23-at-9.53.13-AM.png"><img
class="size-full wp-image-2218" alt="Chet Curtis"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Screen-shot-2014-01-23-at-9.53.13-AM.png"
width="264" height="261" /></a> Chet Curtis reporting on newly installed
Archbishop Medeiros. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_6HXIZIURTZRU5XL">full
story</a>.[/caption]

The local Boston TV news landscape lost a major figure Wednesday with the
passing of Chet Curtis. Known for his work as a WCVB and NECN anchor, Curtis
actually started his broadcasting career at WHDH Channel-5 before it was
relaunched as WCVB. As the home of the WHDH Channel 5 newsfilm archive, the
Boston TV News Digital Library is happy to be able to share some of Curtis'
early
work.

Among the stories we have already digitized is this 1970 piece on the passing
of the torch from Cardinal Cushing to Medeiros, who gives a speech on his
installation as the Archbishop of Boston. Check out Curtis' report on this
landmark Boston event <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_6HXIZIURTZRU5XL">here</a>.
Additionally, we have <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_R0ACXPNMIFXN04U">this fascinating
look </a>at some Earth Day demonstrations. Wrapping up his report, John
Henning introduces Curtis, who is on the scene with Graham Jr. College
students who are smashing a car with baseball
bats.

[caption id="attachment_2219" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Screen-shot-2014-01-23-at-9.52.36-AM.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2219" alt="Chet Curtis"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Screen-shot-2014-01-23-at-9.52.36-AM-300x205.png"
width="300" height="205" /></a> Chet Curtis on the scene of Earth Day
demonstration. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_R0ACXPNMIFXN04U">full
story</a>.[/caption]

On our list of items waiting for digitization, are <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;non_video=yes&amp;q=chet+curtis&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">almost
80 stories</a> reported by Curtis from WHDH and WCVB collections. And those
are just the ones that are clearly marked. Among the more mysteriously labeled
cans, I'm positive there's a wealth of even more Curtis stories. If you're
interested in viewing any of these items, contact us about sponsoring the
preservation, and we'll post it online for free streaming
access.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;