# ABCD

by Allison Pekel,
Intern

UPDATE: As of October 21, 2013, there is <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/2394_01716">video</a> related to this
post on our
website.

One of the exciting things about the Boston Local TV News Project is that it
gives us a more in depth look at the history behind organizations that are
still impacting our communities today - organizations like <a
href="http://www.bostonabcd.org/">Action for Boston Community Development,
Inc.</a> We have reached a place in the Boston Local TV News Project where we
are adding the information found on index cards detailing what can be found on
each reel into a searchable database- this means that we haven’t actually seen
the footage on the reel but are relying on the cards to feed us any clues as
to what might be on them. Some cards are exceptionally detailed, while others
are very vague. The cards for the ABCD fall under the vague arena and it took
a bit of sleuthing to find out what the film on the ABCD might reveal. By
comparing the dates on the cards to the dates of Boston Globe articles
referencing the ABCD, I’ve determined some of the news stories on which we
might have coverage; but first, a little bit of background on the
ABCD.

<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/whdh_abcd1.png"><img
class="alignleft size-medium wp-image-20" title="whdh_abcd1" alt=""
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/whdh_abcd1.png?w=300"
width="300" height="203" /></a>ABCD was founded in Boston in 1962 to provide
for the cities impoverished. The ABCD strives to provide those they serve,
“with the tools to overcome poverty, live with dignity, and achieve their full
potential.” (taken from ABCD’s Website) Their history shows that part of this
service has included acting as a mouthpiece for those they serve in the local,
state and national arenas, often influencing policy and enacting change. This
change has not always come without controversy however, and the Boston Local
TV News Project seems to have within it’s collection clips that showcase the
fanfare surrounding the organizations victories as well as it’s more hotly
debated
decisions.

Some of the gems include footage covering ABCD’s September 1968 decision to
pull endorsement from the Boston School Department’s request for $3.7 million
in federal funds. This money was meant to fund the educational enrichment of
children in low-income areas but the ABCD felt that the funds should be
withheld on the grounds that the School did not provide the community
participation that was stipulated in the grant and therefore didn’t serve the
community as intended. Though ultimately the money was awarded anyway, the
debate encouraged the development of stricter guidelines on grants in the
future.

<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/whdh_abcd2.png"><img
class="alignright size-medium wp-image-21" title="WHDH_ABCD2" alt=""
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/whdh_abcd2.png?w=300"
width="300" height="203" /></a>Another story of note is coverage of the
$557,589 the ABCD received from the US Office of Economic Opportunity in July
of 1970. This grant was the first of its kind in Massachusetts aimed
exclusively towards family planning and would provide low-income women with
much needed access to healthcare in twelve clinics throughout the
city.

We’re so thrilled to eventually be able to present these stories to the public
and hope that seeing these stories on film will bring Boston’s history to life
in a way that written records might not be able to. Look for stories involving
more of our findings to
come!

To find out more about the ABCD check out their website at <a
href="http://www.bostonabcd.org/">www.bostonabcd.org</a>.

Copies of the newspaper articles referencing the ABCD can be found in the <a
href="http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/boston/advancedsearch.html">Boston Globe’s
Archives</a> . They have full text articles that go back as far as
1872!

Happy
Hunting!

<em>References</em>
<ul>
	<li>"US grants ABCD $557,589 for family planning in Hub." Boston Globe
07/14/1970: 32.
Print.</li>
	<li>Van Dyne, Larry. "Boston Gets School Aid Over ABCD Objections." Boston
Globe 09/07/1968: 1,5.
Print.</li>
</ul>