# Transcription Challenges...

by Jessica
Green

<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/toolight.png"><img
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/toolight.png?w=300"
alt="" title="toolight" width="300" height="187" class="alignleft size-medium
wp-image-43" /></a>In the process of entering data from the <a
href="http://www.bpl.org/">Boston Public Library</a> index cards into the
FileMaker database, it is certainly possible to run into some problems. One
problem that I run into every 75 cards or so is words or whole cards that are
unreadable. This can be due to poor handwriting, smudged ink, or ink that is
too faded to read. It is helpful to ask others in the office to see if they
can decipher the words, because sometimes they are already familiar with the
event or person in question and can figure out what it is supposed to say.
Other techniques that can sometimes be helpful are to try to write out the
word as written or compare the letters in question to other letters on the
card or on cards with the same handwriting. <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/hardtoread.png"><img
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/hardtoread.png?w=300"
alt="" title="hardtoread" width="300" height="187" class="alignright
size-medium wp-image-41" /></a>Sometimes the process of elimination is
necessary, once I recognize that what I thought could be an ‘f’ does not match
the letter in other words. If the card really is unreadable, we mark the card
as having a problem, so that it can be reviewed later. <strong>Through the
catalog enrichment process, more sets of eyes can help to solve some of these
mysteries.
</strong>

There is also the problem of incomplete dates. Sometimes dates are written as
“6-1-0” or “8/29/8.” Is this 1960 and 1968 or 1903 and 1983? Luckily the
collection of Boston Public Library cards we are now in the process of
cataloging only ranges from the 1960s to the mid-1970s. Most of the time, the
date can be determined by researching when the event on the card took place or
comparing the card to other cards about the same event. <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/missingyear.png"><img
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/missingyear.png?w=300"
alt="" title="missingyear" width="300" height="187" class="alignleft
size-medium wp-image-42" /></a>This is not the first time I have come across
documents in the research process that are missing the year, but it is the
first time I have come across somebody coming so close to writing the year,
but neglecting to include a crucial digit. <strong>Sometimes we can be so
focused on the here and now, that we lose sense of how future generations will
be viewing our archival materials.
</strong>

Another issue that I come across fairly often is the use of acronyms,
nicknames, or incomplete names. Some acronyms are nationally and even
internationally recognized, such as <a href="http://web.mit.edu/">M.I.T</a>.
or J.F.K., but others are more regional, such as<a
href="http://www.bostonredevelopmentauthority.org/Home.aspx"> B.R.A. (Boston
Redevelopment Authority)</a> or R.V.C. (WHDH reporter Rosemarie Van Camp).
When I come across an unknown acronym, nickname, or incomplete name, I first
search the database to see if another intern already deciphered it and put the
complete name in brackets. If this does not work, I Google it in relation to
the other information on the card or ask around the office to see if somebody
else knows. <strong>Sometimes it is impossible or irresponsible to
guess</strong>, because the person with the last name White could be a number
of different people. Whenever we determine complete names through research, we
include them in brackets so that researchers will know that it was added by a
cataloger and was not included in the original record.

