# Protests Occupy Boston's History

With all of the protests that have been occurring lately, especially <a
title="Occupy Boston" href="http://occupyboston.com/">Occupy Boston</a>
happening right here in our city, I have been thinking a lot about protest
efforts through America’s history. In both the WHDH scans from the <a
href="http://www.bpl.org/">Boston Public Library</a> and the WCVB scans from
<a href="http://www.oldfilm.org/">Northeast Historic Film</a>, there are
hundreds of news stories reporting on the protests occurring in Boston and the
surrounding areas. This hardly comes as a surprise considering just how many
colleges and universities there are here and that these news stories are from
the 60s and the 70s. To help us better contextualize protests happening now,
and maybe to allow us to see them from a new perspective, here are some
examples of protests from over 30 years
ago.

<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/protest-card.jpg"><img
class="alignleft  wp-image-485" title="protest card" alt=""
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/protest-card.jpg"
width="313" height="193" /></a>In spring 1967, mothers on welfare in Roxbury
stage many sit-ins protesting that welfare money wasn’t going where it was
supposed to.  On Friday June 2, the group of protesters, Mothers for Adequate
Welfare, gathered in the local welfare office. Demonstrations had been
peaceful up until this point; however, when the mothers were once again asked
to leave the premises without having their demands considered or even being
seen by the welfare director, the refused to cooperate and chained the doors
shut with bike chains. Police came and entered the building through windows,
while a large crowd gathered outside.  The welfare director finally showed up
when he heard the welfare workers were trapped inside; however he refused to
speak with the protesters. When the police began forcibly removing protestors
and allegedly beating them, the crowd outside rushed the police, resulting in
on again/ off again burst of violence against police lasting the entire night.
By morning, there were over 100 officers trying to keep control of the
situation. The surrounding streets were torn apart, resulting in an estimated
$500,000 worth of damages to store fronts, apartments, and other buildings,
two of which burned down.  The violence continued throughout the
weekend.

For the entirety of the Vietnam War, many Harvard students banded together to
protest against the draft and for peace. These tensions built up to the
student occupation of University Hall, led by <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Students_for_a_Democratic_Society">SDS
(Students for a Democratic Society) </a>in April 1969.  This particular event
is remembered as an attempt of the students to “dissociate themselves from
national policy” because Harvard would not, keeping its contracts with the
Reserve Officers Training Corp (ROTC).  With between 200 and 400 students
participating, the event caught a lot of attention from faculty and the
administration.  A study done by the school later found that the average
participant was “a white-junior living off campus, concentrating in English or
Social Relations and coming from the Eastern United States, an alumnus of a
private school not holding a scholarship at Harvard.” For more statistics
check out: <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1970/6/11/who-are-those-kids-in-university/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1970/6/11/who-are-those-kids-in-university/</a>
The protest ended with 138 students being disciplined; however, it certainly
made its point. An anniversary article published in the <em>Harvard
Crimson</em> 15 years later, quotes faculty and administrators saying that the
protest changed the way the school operates, adding more Vice Presidents to
look into student issues, and holding the administration accountable in news
ways.

The <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Massachusetts_Amherst#Foundation_and_early_years">UMass
Amherst</a> campus had been coeducational for many years, graduating its first
female students in 1905 and building its first female dormitory in 1920.
However, in early May 1978, fifty women stage a sit in in the UMass Amherst
newspaper (<a href="http://dailycollegian.com/">The Massachusetts Daily
Collegian</a>) offices, infiltrating the building at 2 a.m. Their demands:
more coverage of women’s issues. The editor of the paper argued against their
claims, saying that news should be “integrated not segregated.” During this
sit in, the paper continued to operate from a different location. The
University declined to get involved as the paper is student run and
funded.

In searching for information about these news stories, I stumbled on this
article that looks even further back into history to examine protests from all
the way before World War I. Check it out <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1966/6/16/war-protest-at-harvard-is-not/">here</a>.

Do you have any comments on the recent protests and how they fit into history
of the Boston/Massachusetts
area?
Do you remember any protests from the 60s and 70s? Did you participate in
any?

References:
<ul>
	<li>Engelmater, Jean E. and Melissa I. Weissberg. “Reflecting on the 1969
Student Strike.” <em>Harvard Crimson</em> (Cambridge, Mass.) April 9, 1984. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1984/4/9/reflecting-on-the-1969-student-strike/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1984/4/9/reflecting-on-the-1969-student-strike/</a></li>
	<li>Fuerbringer, Jonathan. “Roxbury, Quiet in Past, Finally Breaks into Riot;
What did Violence Occur?” <em>The Harvard Crimson </em>(Cambridge, Mass.) June
16, 1967. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1967/6/15/roxbury-quiet-in-past-finally-breaks/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1967/6/15/roxbury-quiet-in-past-finally-breaks/</a></li>
	<li>Jacobs, Scott W. “Who are those Kids in University Hall?” <em>The Harvard
Crimson</em> (Cambridge, Mass.) June 11, 1970. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1970/6/11/who-are-those-kids-in-university/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1970/6/11/who-are-those-kids-in-university/</a></li>
	<li>Kogan, Ruth. “UMass Feminists Occupy Office to Protest Newspaper
Policies.” <em>The Harvard Crimson</em> (Cambridge, Mass.) May 02, 1978. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1978/5/2/umass-feminists-occupy-office-to-protest/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1978/5/2/umass-feminists-occupy-office-to-protest/</a></li>
	<li>Rosberg, Gerald M. “War Protest at Harvard is Not New; Pacifist Got
Support in ’16 and ‘41” <em>The Harvard Crimson</em> (Cambridge, Mass.) June
16, 1966. <a
href="http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1966/6/16/war-protest-at-harvard-is-not/">http://www.thecrimson.com/article/1966/6/16/war-protest-at-harvard-is-not/</a></li>
</ul>