# The Student Occupation of Ford Hall

<blockquote>
<p style="text-align: left;"><em>“In the Bicentennial year of our
Independence, we can review with admiration the impressive contributions of
black Americans to our national life and culture...Freedom and the recognition
of individual rights are what our Revolution was all about. They were ideals
that inspired our fight for Independence: ideals that we have been striving to
live up to ever since. Yet it took many years before ideals became a reality
for black citizens. In celebrating Black History Month...we can seize the
opportunity to honor the too-often neglected accomplishments of black
Americans in every area of endeavor throughout our
history.”</em></p>
<p dir="ltr" style="text-align: right;">-President Gerald R. Ford<a
href="http://www.ford.utexas.edu/library/speeches/760074.htm">
Message on the Observance of Black History
Month</a>
February 10,
1976</p>
</blockquote>
As someone who devours history books, reading about race relations in the
United States through books has been educational and provocative. In contrast,
reviewing materials from the late 1960s as they happened on a day-by-day basis
has been a raw, visceral experience. Small events built up to a greater
unrest, until the tension became too much. One such case occurred on January
8, 1969, when 60-75 members of the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brandeis_University">Brandeis </a>
Afro-American Society took over Ford Hall for 11 days. How did it get to this
point?

On April 4, 1968, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.">Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr.</a> was assassinated. This led the Brandeis Afro-American Society to
encourage the university to develop an <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/African_american_studies">Afro-American
studies</a> department, hire more black professors and recruit more black
students. Ten Martin Luther King Jr. scholarships were created, as well as the
Transitional Year Program (TYP), in order to demonstrate a commitment to
social justice. The program, which began in September 1968, created
educational opportunities for students who did not have the chance to develop
the skills to attend - and succeed - in college. In December, the African and
Afro-American studies concentrations were approved. One week later a white
student allegedly shot a black TYP student in the face with a BB
gun.

On January 7, 1969, presentations were given at Brandeis about the student
strike at <a
href="http://foundsf.org/index.php?title=San_Francisco_State_Strike">San
Francisco State</a>. The strike had started November 6, 1968, and eventually
lasted through March 20, 1969. It involved riot police and tanks, and
protesters from many backgrounds coming together. The presenters discussed how
this strike related to Brandeis. On January 8, 1969, one of the presenters,
Brandeis Assistant Professor of Sociology Neil Friedman, announced to the
University that he would be striking for one week in support of San Francisco
State, and requested his salary be suspended. That afternoon, the takeover of
<a
href="http://lts.brandeis.edu/research/archives-speccoll/events/ford/gallery/occupation.html">Ford
Hall</a>
began.

Ford Hall was evacuated, the building was secured, and the Brandeis
Afro-American Society held a news conference. At that time a list of <a
href="http://lts.brandeis.edu/research/archives-speccoll/events/ford/occupation/tendemands.html">ten
demands</a> was presented. By January 9, 1969, white students had started a
sit-in supporting the Afro-American Society. By January 14, 1969, 22 white
students had started a hunger strike. By the time the occupation ended on
January 18, 1969, the ten demands were still not approved, but the students
were granted amnesty. Several of the demands were later discussed and
implemented, including the hiring of a black chairman for the new African and
Afro-American studies department. A step had been taken toward equality, but
many were still unsatisfied. There was still a long road to
travel.

Have we reached our destination yet? Are we all finally “equal” and satisfied?
What do you
think?