# Titicut Follies, 1967

While working with a huge collection of stories with no more than one sentence
descriptions, I feel like I have developed an extra sense, one which allows me
to instinctually feel if there is more to a story than the card is letting on.
Often times I am forced to move on, even if I think a story might have an
added layer of interest, simply because there is no way to know if my
instincts are right. I am sure there are thousands of stories I have only
glanced at (some of which we’ll start to see, once we start voting on stories
and digitizing them!), but as soon as I read Titicut Follies as a record
title, I knew this was one of the stories I needed to completely track
down.

In 1967, yet–undiscovered-talent, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederick_Wiseman">Frederick Wiseman</a>
spent 29 days filming 40 hours of footage at <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bridgewater_State_Hospital">Massachusetts'
Bridgewater State Hospital for the Criminally Insane</a>. Before launching his
documentary film career, Wiseman was a law professor who brought his students
on field trips to the hospital as part of class. The footage he took depicted
the harsh conditions of both the building and the treatment of the patients.
When he released <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Titicut_Follies"><em>Titicut
Follies</em></a>, it shocked audiences and got rave reviews at the New York
Film Festival. However, before it got much exposure, Lt. Governor Elliot
Richardson led an effort to ban the movie from being released. Even though
Wiseman had secured permission from everyone involved with and portrayed in
the film, they claimed that it was still an invasion of privacy because the
patients were not of sound mind and so could not actually give that
permission.

When the ban passed it made history: <em>Titicut Follies </em>became the first
film to be banned for reasons other than obscenity, pitting the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right_to_privacy">Right to Privacy</a>
against the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_expression">Freedom of
Expression</a>. Local news covered this story in 1967, records of which we
have in our collections, but that’s not the whole
story.

[caption id="attachment_640" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/800px-Frederick_Wiseman.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-640" title="Frederick Wiseman" alt="Frederick
Wiseman"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/800px-Frederick_Wiseman-300x225.jpg"
width="300" height="225" /></a> Frederick Wiseman, courtesy of Wikimedia
Commons[/caption]

After his appeals to the State and Federal Supreme Courts were denied in 1969,
Wiseman always planned to fight the ban, but waited for the time to do it most
effectively. In 1987 he took his chance, after 5 Bridgewater inmates committed
suicide, which, it was reported, could have been prevented has the institution
provided better care, which a wider release of the film probably would have
promoted. Finally in 1989, it was ruled that the film could be released as
long as the faces were blurred. Wiseman appealed this stipulation, not based
(at least legally) on any censorship case, but rather on the fact that since
the documentary was shot on film rather than video, attempts to blur faces
would ruin the quality of the film, making it
unviewable.

As no inmates or family members had pressed claims since 1967, Massachusetts
Supreme Court Judge Andre Gill Meyer lifted the ban completely in 1991. The
film opened the 1991 Boston Film Festival. In 1993, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_Broadcasting_Service">PBS</a>
broadcasted the documentary on
television.

While the film has always been a topic of discussion in documentary film
studies, used as an example of the issues between the rights to expression and
privacy, now the focus has shifted, and it has started to be studied as a
piece of filmmaking, especially as a study of Wiseman’s early
technique.

<strong>References:</strong>

Koehler, Robert. “’Titicut Follies’ Arrives, 24 Years After the Fact: Film:
the 1967 documentary was banned until this year in a dispute of freedom of
expression versus privacy rights of mental patients.” <em>The Los Angeles
Times</em> (Los Angeles, CA). October 14, 1991.
http://articles.latimes.com/1991-10-14/entertainment/ca-574_1_titicut-follies

“Top 10 Banned Films of the 20<sup>th</sup> Century.” <em>Alternative
Reel</em>. Accessed Jan. 14, 2012. <a
href="http://www.alternativereel.com/includes/top-ten/display_review.php?id=00091">http://www.alternativereel.com/includes/top-ten/display_review.php?id=00091</a>

Price, Michael. “Titicut Follies.” <em>Sense of Cinema</em>. Accessed Jan. 14,
2012.
http://www.sensesofcinema.com/2002/cteq/titicut/