# Lunar Landing, 1969

[caption id="attachment_2637" align="alignleft" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/885_BPL_M60TO12XC25HT4P_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2637" alt="Men Hanging Apollo 11 banner"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/885_BPL_M60TO12XC25HT4P_thumbnail-300x224.jpg"
width="300" height="224" /></a> Men hanging banner congratulating Apollo 11.
Watch the <a href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_M60TO12XC25HT4P">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr">45 years ago people still weren’t sure if we would ever walk on
the moon. On July 16, 1969 <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apollo_11">Apollo 11</a> took off on their
historic mission, and four days later, on July 20th, they landed on the moon.
This event was one of the most important things that had happened in human
history so far. Not only was it a huge breakthrough for astronomers and other
scientists, it was also a landmark in media history, drawing the largest
television audience for any live event broadcast. The footage that people
watched that day, 45 years ago, is a very important part of our history and
has been <a
href="http://www.nasa.gov/multimedia/hd/apollo11_hdpage.html#.UyhwLl5rWl1">preserved</a>
accordingly. However, because the first lunar landing was such a momentous
event, there was a lot more media produced at the time, than just the footage
broadcast from the moon. If you think of the lunar landing broadcast as a
newscast, then there were in fact newscasts about newscasts. We think it’s
important to preserve these pieces of history as
well.</p>


[caption id="attachment_2638" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/885_BPL_2EHF2WI4X1BV8PV_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2638" alt="Man from Boston Museum of Science."
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/885_BPL_2EHF2WI4X1BV8PV_thumbnail-300x225.jpg"
width="300" height="225" /></a> Man from the Boston Museum of Science on
Apollo 11 exhibits. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_2EHF2WI4X1BV8PV">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr">So far we’ve been able to digitize two examples of these news
stories. Both aired on WHDH on July 21, 1969, the day after man first stepped
foot on the moon. The <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_M60TO12XC25HT4P">first</a> is from
reporter John Henning. It starts with b-roll of exhibits about Apollo 11.
Henning explains that even though the broadcast schedule got changed around
the previous night, Bostonians were patient, flexible, eager viewers. The
story even includes shots of people watching the landing on TVs in their
homes.</p>
<p dir="ltr">The <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_2EHF2WI4X1BV8PV">second story</a>
is from reporter Bill Zimmerman at the Boston Museum of Science. Zimmerman
interviews a man who works at the museum about a scene caused the day before
when they canceled a planetarium show in order to broadcast the lunar landing
at the museum. The story demonstrates that not everyone was as hyped about
this Apollo mission as it might have seemed; Zimmerman’s deadpan manner is a
perfect match for how incredulous the museum worker is about “science
enthusiasts” who don’t want to watch a man land on the
moon.</p>
<p dir="ltr">In our collections, there are <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;non_video=yes&amp;q=apollo+11&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">even
more news stories about Apollo 11</a>, which we haven’t been able to view or
digitize yet. If you’d like to see more, consider sponsoring one of those
stories through our digitization on demand
program.</p>
<p
dir="ltr"><strong>References:</strong></p>
<p dir="ltr">Roach, John. "Apollo Anniversary: Moon Landing 'Inspired World.'"
<em>National Geographic News</em>. July 16, 2004. <a
href="http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2004/07/0714_040714_moonlanding.html">http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2004/07/0714_040714_moonlanding.html</a></p>