# UFO Sightings in the 1960s

While processing the WHDH stories that have been digitized so far, I came
across <a href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_ZWGMPZS3MZKLL7Z">a real
gem</a>. Reporter Vin Maloney interviews passersby about their views on
UFOs.

[caption id="attachment_2187" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/Screen-shot-2013-12-30-at-10.22.21-AM.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2187" alt="Vin Maloney "
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/Screen-shot-2013-12-30-at-10.22.21-AM-300x200.png"
width="300" height="200" /></a> Vin Maloney interviews a young man about UFOs.
Find the full video <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_ZWGMPZS3MZKLL7Z">here</a>.[/caption]

The designation "<a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unidentified_flying_object">UFO</a>" was
officially created by the U.S. Air Force in 1953, although people have been
reporting sightings since the beginning of history. 1965 had one of the
highest number of UFO sightings ever, which could certainly account for the
increased interest of the media. As you'll be able to tell from the interview
answers, there was a wide range of opinions about the existence of aliens and
the believability of people's accounts of UFO encounter and sightings. Some
people completely believe, while one older woman thinks "it's just not
right."

Coincidentally, this news story predates a huge event in UFO sighting history
by only a few months. In early September 1965, a teenager and two police
officers, saw a large flying object with red blinking lights near Exeter, NH,
which could not be explained. The sighting, which garnered a lot of media
attention, is now known as the "<a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exeter_incident">Exeter Incident</a>."
While this event, occurring several months later, could not have been the
impetus for the WHDH news story; it is a great exampleÂ  of the UFO craze of
the
1960s.

If you're interested in more about media coverage of UFOs, check out these
other <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;non_video=yes&amp;q=ufo&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">news
stories</a> we have in our collections. If you'd like to see any of them
digitized and streaming, contact us to sponsor their
digitization.

References:

Ridge, Fran. "The 1965 UFO Chronology." National Investigations Committee on
Aerial Phenomena. Accessed December 30, 2013.
http://www.nicap.org/waves/1965fullrep.htm

Booth, B.J. "1965, The Exeter, New Hampshire Encounters." UFO Casebook.
Accessed December 30, 2013.
http://www.ufocasebook.com/Exeter.html