# Telling the Tale

By Brian
Shetler

In December of 2011, I wrote a<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/2011/12/the-great-plymouth-mail-truck-robbery-and-the-%e2%80%9cbig-bust-theory%e2%80%9d/">
blog post about the Great Plymouth Mail Robbery</a> for the Boston Local TV
blog. At that time, the robbery was a newly discovered piece of history for me
and something that was interesting to write about. A little bit of research
and some digging in the <a
href="http://www.bpl.org/research/print/boston.htm">Boston Public Library
photo archives</a> allowed me to learn more about the case. Enough, I thought,
to write a short post for this blog. While it was certainly interesting to
research, and fun to write, I didn’t think too much beyond the 600 or so words
that were posted
online.

About 5 months later, I was happy to hear that not only had someone actually
read and liked the blog post, but that he was interested in learning more
about the case. In fact, the blog post caught the attention of a trustee at
the <a href="http://66.147.244.102/~plymouu3/wptest/">Plymouth Public
Library</a>. The library had recently published a book on contemporary
Plymouth history and had made mention of the Mail Robbery in the publication.
The excitement and mystery of the case was quite intriguing for people in the
Plymouth area, and the library thought it would make for a nice addition to
their regular Lecture Series. So, before I knew it, the little card that I had
come across as part of the WHDH project had turned into a speaking opportunity
at the Plymouth Public
Library!

On October 1st, 2012, I drove down to Plymouth from Boston, passing right by
the location of the robbery as I made my way to the library. The talk came on
the heels of the library’s annual business meeting, so there was a good-sized
audience ready to see the presentation.  In the end, about 80 people showed up
to hear about the event. A great many of those in attendance had lived in
Plymouth at the time of the robbery and recalled details of the crime during
and after it
unfolded.

During the hour-long talk, I reviewed the known facts, the long-assumed
theories, and the crazy guesses surrounding the Great Plymouth Mail Robbery.
The story behind the crime is filled with violence, corruption, mystery, and
even humor and made for a great tale to tell. The audience was engaged and
asked great questions after the talk was over. So many questions, in fact,
that the library was closing by the time the last people left. A couple
students from nearby Plymouth High School came to record the talk as part of a
weekly school newscast. Overall, it was a fun and successful event…and one
that I was very lucky to take part
in.

While I could not have anticipated that a simple blog post would turn into
something larger, I was thrilled to have the opportunity to share the story of
the Plymouth Mail Robbery with others. The talk also gave me a chance to learn
more about this fascinating case. All thanks to a little card with a few words
that piqued my
interest!

If you are interested in learning a bit more about the Great Plymouth Mail
Robbery, please take a look at the <a
href="http://prezi.com/ws7f__jomagg/and-it-was-never-seen-again/">Prezi
presentation</a> that I created for the
talk.