# Stock Footage

By Karin
Carlson

So far the only stories from the WCVB collection I have been able to get a
closer look at are the handful of reels that we have inspected, and sometimes
transferred, by request.  Occasionally Northeast Historic Film will receive a
request for <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stock_footage">stock
footage</a> from a producer or director for a documentary or television
program, and some of these requests have coincided with the footage available
in the WCVB
collection.

[caption id="attachment_1117" align="alignleft" width="300" caption="White
Bulger Mug Shots, courtesy of Wikimedia Commons"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/James_J._Bulger_in_1953.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1117" title="Whitey Bulger Arrest"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/James_J._Bulger_in_1953-300x188.jpg"
alt="Whitey Bulger Mugshots" width="300" height="188"
/></a>[/caption]

Since the arrest of <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whitey_Bulger">“Whitey” Bulger</a> last
year the most requested subject I have received has been anything in
connection with Bulger, the Boston mafia, or South Boston Crime.  I have not
found any footage yet that deals directly with Bulger, but searching through
the information can be tricky.  These reels have not been fully processed or
tagged with subjects so when I search my inventory I have to guess what the
newscaster/ cameraman may have written on the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/2012/03/slugs/">slug</a> (the leader on
the outside of the reel).  This is a tricky request as well, because Bulger
was involved in crime but not arrested during the time period covered by the
Collection and it is unlikely that the station would have done a story
directly about him or the
mafia.

[caption id="attachment_1118" align="alignright" width="300" caption="1970
Boston Protest against the Vietnam War, courtesy Wikimedia Commons"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Boston_1970_protest_against_the_Vietnam_War.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1118"
title="Boston_1970_protest_against_the_Vietnam_War"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Boston_1970_protest_against_the_Vietnam_War-300x199.jpg"
alt="1970 Boston Protest against the Vietnam War" width="300" height="199"
/></a>[/caption]

Other requests have centered on an image as opposed to a particular subject. 
One example of this was a request for “<a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hippies">Hippies </a>at <a
href="http://www.harvard.edu/">Harvard</a>.”  I searched for “hippies,”
“students,” “Harvard,” “demo,” “demonstration,” “rally,” “march,” and
“protest.”  I came up with a reasonable list, but upon further inspection few
stories were actual student demonstrations and what few hippies I found were
not on the Harvard campus.  While I was not successful in locating the footage
requested, I did come across some footage of an anti-war protest on <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_Common">Boston Common</a> where,
according to the Boston Globe story, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_kerry">John Kerry</a> was one of the
speakers.  I was unable to tell if he was pictured by winding through it, but
if this reel is chosen to be transferred then I will get a closer
look.

Other searches have been more successful.  A request for police arresting
people, preferably teenagers, was easily located in the bussing footage, and
anyone looking for footage of a fire will not be disappointed.  I am very
grateful for these requests as they have helped me to give me a better
understanding of the nature of the footage I am processing and have also given
me the chance to get a head start on inspecting the film.  The more I weave my
way through the collection and try to get into the heads of the cameramen the
more excited I am to get started on <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/2012/02/coming-soon-the-catalog/">the
process of targeted digitization</a> as opposed to the to scatter shot
approach that has been available to me so
far.