# Steve's Ice Cream, Davis Square

<p dir="ltr">As summer approaches, my mind turns to beach trips and ice cream.
Who am I kidding, I’m always thinking about ice cream. I got an especially
strong hankering a while ago when I watched this <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_DLQI4Z0BZTRQ707">news footage</a>
about ice cream legend Steve Herrell, from his first shop Steve’s Ice Cream in
Davis
Square.</p>


[caption id="attachment_2248" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Screen-shot-2014-01-27-at-1.49.00-PM.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2248" alt="Steve Herrell"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Screen-shot-2014-01-27-at-1.49.00-PM-300x227.png"
width="300" height="227" /></a> Steve Herrell being interviewed. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_DLQI4Z0BZTRQ707">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr">Herrell opened Steve’s Ice Cream in 1973, with the purpose of
selling premium handmade ice cream, as opposed to the massively processed
alternative. In his little shop, which sold out of ice cream the very first
day it opened, Herrell popularized low-air ice cream and the mix-in (or
“smoosh-in” - a term Herrell has trademarked). This approach has since become
much more widespread, often in shops founded by former Steve’s employees, like
Amy’s and Toscanini’s, as well as being the basis for chains like Cold Stone
Creamery.</p>
<p dir="ltr">Herrell sold the company to Bertucci’s founder Joe Crugnale in
1977.  After the three-year  non-compete clause ran out, he opened Herrell’s
in Northampton, taking all of his original techniques and recipes with him.
Herrell’s is still turning out delicious ice cream for Western Massachusetts
inhabitants and visitors, and Steve himself still works at the
shop.</p>


[caption id="attachment_2245" align="alignleft" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/barcode126735_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2245" alt="Flavor Board"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/barcode126735_thumbnail-300x202.jpg"
width="300" height="202" /></a> The board of flavors at Steve's Ice Cream in
Davis Square. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_DLQI4Z0BZTRQ707">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr">The news footage in our collection is not an edited story about
Steve’s, it’s a field tape with all the original unedited footage shot for a
story. Its starts with b-roll of interiors of the front of the shop. See the
famous board listing all of the flavors, and the old fashioned ice and salt
machine that Herrell used to make his low-air, incredibly thick ice cream,
that everyone went crazy for. There is also footage of Steve and employees
prepping the ice cream ingredients in the back of the shop, and a staged
customer interaction to capture the procedure of ordering smoosh-ins at the
counter. Following the b-roll, the reporter interviews Herrell about a new FDA
regulation, requiring food distributors to add to their labels whether they
use natural or artificial flavors. Herrell’s attitude about ice cream and
business comes through in the interview, for those who want to get a sense of
what he was like in the early
days.</p>