# Thomas I. Atkins, Boston City Councilor

[caption id="attachment_2570" align="alignleft" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/345_BPL_87RQYAL5J0O0M1G_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2570" alt="Thomas Atkins giving speech"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/345_BPL_87RQYAL5J0O0M1G_thumbnail-300x225.jpg"
width="300" height="225" /></a> Thomas Atkins gives a speech in 1969. Watch
the <a href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_87RQYAL5J0O0M1G">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr"
id="docs-internal-guid-bf6402e9-d5db-cd17-d319-71851b35e5ee">Boston City
Councilor <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_I._Atkin">Thomas I.
Atkins</a> strove throughout his life to break down barriers and become a
political leader, despite being faced with mid-century American racism.
Reading through his biography, one can’t help but notice the repetition of the
phrase “First African American to...” He was the first African American
student body president at his high school and again at Indiana University
(which also made him the first African American student body president in the
Big 10). After coming to Boston to study at Harvard, he became the first
African American elected to <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_City_Council">Boston City
Council</a>, and later in his career, he was the first African American to
serve as a <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Government_of_Massachusetts#Governor.27s_Cabinet">Massachusetts
Cabinet
Secretary</a>.</p>
<p dir="ltr">Atkins’s accomplishments go beyond setting new precedents for
African American leaders. He did important work on the Boston City Council, on
the Boston and National <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naacp">NAACP</a>
boards, and on the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morgan_v._Hennigan">Morgan v. Hennigan
case</a>. The day after MLK’s assassination, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_I._Atkins#Politics">Atkins is
credited </a>with persuading Mayor Kevin White to famously not cancel the
James Brown concert, which was instead broadcast live on WGBH-TV. Atkins even
ran for mayor of Boston in 1971, although he came in 4th place
overall.</p>
<p dir="ltr">Elected to the City Council in 1967, Atkins was in office during
the rise of the school desegregation crisis. He went on to serve as the
associate trial counsel for the plaintiffs in the Morgan v. Hennigan case,
fighting against the de facto segregation in Boston, especially its public
schools. This case was assigned to Federal Judge <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wendell_Arthur_Garrity_Jr.">W. Arthur
Garrity</a>, and resulted in the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desegregation_busing">court-ordered
busing</a> plan, which was so controversial in Boston through the
1970s.</p>
<p dir="ltr">Mentions of Thomas Atkins’s work and contributions are sprinkled
throughout the Boston TV News collections. Most of the news stories involving
him directly haven’t been digitized yet. One extremely interesting piece that
is already available is this WHDH <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/BPL_87RQYAL5J0O0M1G">excerpt from a
speech </a>he gave at the Northeastern States Youth Citizenship Conference in
1969. He talks about the social role of the church, which he thinks can be
powerful, although it hasn’t been doing enough lately. He says this is the
context of the recently published Black Manifesto, which
opens</p>

<blockquote>“We the black people… are fully aware that we have been forced to
come together because racist white America has exploited our resources, our
minds, our bodies, our labor. For centuries we have been forced to live as
colonized people inside the United States, victimized by the most vicious,
racist system in the world. We have helped to build the most industrial
country in the
world.”</blockquote>
It goes on to demand white churches and synagogues to pay $500 million
reparations to the African American community for their mistreatment in the
last century. In his speech, Atkins mentions specifically the interruption of
a service at the Riverside Church in Harlem. He says that it was James Farmer,
although I believe he misspoke and meant <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Forman">James Forman</a>, who is the
author of the Black Manifesto, and who did interrupt a Riverside Church
service to read the Manifesto and demand reparations. The <a
href="http://www.episcopalarchives.org/Afro-Anglican_history/exhibit/pdf/blackmanifesto.pdf">full-text</a>
of the Black Manifesto can be found in the Archives of the Episcopal
Church.

This is one of many news stories about Thomas Atkins. If you’re looking for
more coverage of his life and career, read through our <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;non_video=yes&amp;q=thomas+atkins&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">full
catalog</a> and choose a story that you’d like to sponsor for
digitization.