# Remembering John Silber

<!-- p { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } -->Former <a
href="http://www.bu.edu/">Boston University</a> president and gubernatorial
candidate for Massachusetts, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Silber">John Silber</a>, died today of
kidney failure at the age of 86. Serving as president of BU for a quarter
century, Silber was an important figure in Boston's history, and he continued
to be active in the Massachusetts political and education arena after stepping
down as
president.

The Boston Local TV News collections cover the span of his entire career, and
highlight many of the important stages of impact on the Boston
community.

The WHDH collection has the beginning of his career in Boston with Silber’s
inauguration as President of BU in 1971. It also contains several addresses he
made early in his tenure, including one on American
Universities.

The WCVB collection contains a lot of his career at BU, including coverage of
the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/2012/04/union-struggles-at-b-u-1979/">faculty
and clerical worker strike</a> that epitomized the tension that existed
between Silber and the BU faculty and staff throughout the 70s. There is also
footage of him discussing <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Student_loans_in_the_United_States">student
loan policy</a> and <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affirmative_action">Affirmative
Action</a>.

The WGBH Ten O’Clock News collection overlaps with the WCVB collection and
contains some coverage of Silber’s career at BU, including him giving an
honorary degree to Zulu chief <span style="color: #000000;"><a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mangosuthu_Buthelezi">Mangosuthu Buthelezi
</a>and BU taking over management of the Chelsea public school system. The Ten
O’Clock News also covers Silber’s career outside of his role as president a
university. The collection has his views on bilingual education, a
discussion/argument with <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noam_Chompsky">Noam Chomsky</a> on <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contras">Contra</a> aid, and coverage of
his gubernatorial race in 1990 against <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Weld">William Weld</a>, which
includes a Ten O’Clock News Special profiling him as the democratic candidate.
There is also a retrospective piece in the collection, containing photographs
of Silber in his youth, at his wedding, at college, and with his family. Some
of the Ten O’Clock News footage of Silber has already been digitized and is
available on <a
href="http://openvault.wgbh.org/catalog?f[person_cv][]=Silber%2C+John%2C+1926-&amp;q=john+silber&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">Open
Vault</a>.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">John Silber had a large impact on the local
Boston community, and our Boston Local News Digital Library is one way that
impact will be recorded, preserved, and
remembered.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Update: As of October 21, 2013 there is <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_MD7O25KRXWXTCO6">video</a> related to
this post on our
website.
</span>

<strong>References:</strong>

Feeney, Mark. “Former Boston University president John Silber dies at 86.”
<em>Boston Glober</em><em></em>, September 27, 2012. Accessed September 27,
2012.
http://www.boston.com/metrodesk/2012/09/27/former-boston-university-president-john-silber-dies/I7tjYVpNSQ5yFViA1cjhdP/story.html