# Robert McNamara at the Harvard Kennedy School, 1995

by Jason
Ong

In 1995, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_mcnamara">Robert
McNamara</a>, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Secretary_of_Defense">Secretary
of Defens</a>e from 1961 to 1968, was one of the panel guests at a <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kennedy_School_of_Government">Harvard
Kennedy School </a>discussion about the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vietnam_war">Vietnam War</a>. He had just
written a book, <a
href="http://books.google.com/books?id=c2BIsKgZQlUC&amp;printsec=frontcover&amp;dq=in+retrospect+the+tragedies+and+lessons+of+the+vietnam+war&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=U_024WggUd&amp;sig=R6DjpiK02vKqoxM315aJSGOB5AI&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=7iN4UPTtN6b20gGcz4HABg&amp;ved=0CDIQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&amp;q=in%20retrospect%20the%20tragedies%20and%20lessons%20of%20the%20vietnam%20war&amp;f=false"><em>In
Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam</em></a>. While he was
Secretary, the United States greatly increased its involvement in the war, and
McNamara was at the discussion to talk about his
experience.

McNamara said that just before <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_F._Kennedy">President Kennedy</a>’s
inauguration, he and other members of the incoming administration met with <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dwight_D._Eisenhower">President
Eisenhower</a> about Vietnam, and even then there was some confusion about
what the United States should be doing. McNamara felt that Eisenhower was
relieved to be leaving that question for their administration. He described
several mistakes he had made about fighting the war and warned against
repeating those same mistakes in future
wars.

The moderator asked the audience for questions, and all of them were directed
at McNamara, and some of them were angry or injured in tone, because of how he
had handled the war. There was some shouting on both sides and he was very
much on the defensive, unlike during his speech, when most of the audience
seemed to be
supportive.

John Hurley, a Vietnam veteran (who would go on to head Vietnam Veterans for
Kerry in 2004), told McNamara that his book and his presence at the panel was
an obscenity. He felt that McNamara, while he was Secretary, had begun to
realize the war was a mistake but allowed it to continue. And he asked
McNamara why 57,000 American soldiers died as a
result.

McNamara began to say that he’d have to read his book, and when Hurley
interrupted that response, McNamara actually pointed to him and told him to
shut
up.

[caption id="attachment_1239" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/robert_mcnamara.png"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1239" title="robert_mcnamara" alt=""
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/robert_mcnamara-300x225.png"
width="300" height="225" /></a> Robert McNamara responds to John Hurley at
Harvard Kennedy School, 1995 Courtesy
CCTV[/caption]

He did ask the moderator to let Hurley ask a follow-up question.So it seemed
that McNamara wasn't trying to stop Hurley from speaking; he just didn’t want
to be interrupted while he was answering. McNamara explained that, at the
time, he honestly believed that the war was necessary, because an independent
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_vietnam">South Vietnam</a> was
needed to stop the advance of <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communism">communism</a>. Hurley responded
that those geopolitical concerns weren’t justification enough for all of the
deaths.

Another audience member who spoke was Maureen Dunn, widow of a pilot who was
shot down in 1968 and is still listed as Missing in Action. She had obtained a
transcript of a meeting in which then-Secretary McNamara vetoed a search for
her missing husband, saying that he wasn’t worth it. She asked McNamara to
apologize, and he did, saying that he was “horrified.” He claimed that he
didn’t remember that actual meeting, but he did ask for a copy of her
transcript.

I’ve written about discussions at the Harvard Kennedy School before: one event
featured <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/2012/04/mike-wallace-at-the-harvard-kennedy-school-1995/">Mike
Wallace</a>, and another hosted <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/2012/05/editorial-cartoonists-at-the-harvard-kennedy-school-1995/">a
group of editorial cartoonists</a>. But this was the first discussion I’d seen
where members of the audience actively challenged one of the panel guests,
because the topic of discussion, the Vietnam War, was so controversial and
also personal for some. Even though McNamara admitted his mistakes, his
actions were partly responsible for the deaths of John Hurley's fellow
soldiers and the disappearance of Maureen Dunn's husband. Some kind of
conflict was probably inevitable if he ever met these people whose lives were
affected.