# The Infill Housing Program, 1968-1973

If you've been following this blog with any sort of regularity, which we
hope's the case, you are by now well aware that the WHDH-TV cards often reveal
only one small glimpse into the larger news story they reference. One measly,
unsatisfying glimpse: that's usually all we
get.

That was the case with a recent series of cards I encountered about the
<strong>Infill Housing Program of 1968,</strong> a development project which
broke ground in November of that year. Thanks to the folks at the<a
href="http://www.archive.org/"> Internet Archive</a> and the <a
href="http://www.bpl.org/">Boston Public Library</a>--who together have
digitized and made (easily) accessible a great many of Boston's public
records--I was able to get a clear understanding of the history of the Infill
Housing Program in Boston, and Roxbury in
particular.

[caption id="attachment_420" align="alignleft" width="354"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Roxbury-Infill.png"><img
class="size-full wp-image-420" title="Roxbury Infill" alt=""
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Roxbury-Infill.png"
width="354" height="484" /></a> A map displaying the 11 completed Infill
buildings in Roxbury, from Mayor Flynn's 1986 "Roxbury Neighborhood Housing
Initiative"*[/caption]

The Infill Housing Program of 1968, organized by the <a
href="http://www.bostonredevelopmentauthority.org/Home.aspx">Boston
Redevelopment Authority</a> (BRA) under the supervision of director <a
href="http://www.boston.com/news/local/breaking_news/2008/04/c_hale_champion.html">Hale
Champion</a>, was designed to re-purpose vacant lots in city neighborhoods
into some 2,000 single-family and multi-story housing units for low-income
families around Boston. Known also as “vest pocket” housing, for the way in
which construction ‘slips’ in to already portioned off land, the Infill
Housing concept of the late 1960s called for the construction of
industrially-produced, precast concrete modular housing on vacant,
tax-foreclosed lots in Boston, namely in the South End, North Dorchester, and
Roxbury. The majority of the Infill structures were four story buildings
designed to house two ‘large’ families in a duplex arrangement. Despite their
concrete gut, the apartments were brick-faced and considered architecturally
attractive for the time (see: <a
href="http://www.worldcat.org/title/exterior-of-the-prototype-house-for-the-boston-infill-program/oclc/446554023?title=&amp;detail=&amp;page=frame&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2F129.10.107.247%2Fgsdl%2Fcgi-bin%2Flibrary.exe%3Fa%3Dq%26r%3D1%26hs%3D1%26e%3Dq-01000-00---off-0freedomh--00-1----0-10-0---0---0direct-10---4-------0-1l--11-en-50---20-about---00-3-1-00-0-0-11-1-0utfZz-8-00%26fqf%3DIM%26t%3D0%26q%3DA003557a.jpg%26checksum%3Da9c0a110785236ab046bbfabffbb17fd&amp;linktype=digitalObject">exterior
of an Infill prototype</a>). The other structural type was
wood-framed.

&nbsp;

<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Card-1.png"><img
class="alignright wp-image-418" title="Card #1" alt=""
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Card-1.png"
width="263" height="169" /></a>Mayor Kevin White sold the $47 million Infill
idea to the <a href="http://www.cityofboston.gov/citycouncil/">Boston City
Council</a> in October 1968 by promising the project wouldn’t cost the city a
thing: the Federal government would cover the costs of plans and loans, and
private developers would see to the actual building. The first year of
construction was to cost $16 million. The White administration claimed that
the use of private development firms using mass production techniques would
help reduce waste, save money, and speed up construction. The Development
Corporation of America (DCA), who had claimed that the construction of the
frames for each four-story house would take no longer than one day, won the
largest contract. (Another firm, Housing Innovations, took a small amount of
units). While the DCA covered the construction of the Roxbury and South End
iterations, the <a href="http://www.bostonhousing.org/">Boston Housing
Authority</a> took charge of renting the units upon completion to a select
group of low-incomes tenants under a subsidized rental program. Once occupied,
the houses were to be run and managed by a tenant
cooperative.

<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Card-2.png"><img
class="alignleft wp-image-419" title="Card #2" alt=""
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Card-2.png"
width="265" height="173" /></a>Opposition to the project was swift and
vociferous. It ranged from issues related to structural design and density to
social prejudice, especially in the predominately white areas. <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louise_Day_Hicks">Mrs. Louise Day
Hicks</a>, then councilor-elect, called the program an “ill-conceived,
selfish-interest-spawned, giveaway program.” Councilors <a
href="http://www.boston.com/news/local/breaking_news/2008/06/thomas_i_atkins.html">Thomas
I. Atkins</a> and Frederick C. Langone objected to the plan’s speedy
presentation to the City Council, despite their eventual approval. Langone
said that even “the administrator of the Model Cities [a wide-ranging plan to
revitalize many city services in Roxbury and North Dorchester] admitted to us
he had not read the document which came before us.” Local residents complained
that, unlike large private contractors, the city never afforded them the
opportunity to purchase the vacant lots for housing or other purposes. Others
worried that the large family units would take up dwindling open space that
otherwise may have been used as a public park or play area for
children.

All things considered, Roxbury was to see 400 units of family housing as
result of the Infill program. The project broke ground on Intervale Street in
Roxbury in late November 1968, and by 1973, after delays had pushed the start
of real construction back to 1971, a little over 100 units in 18 structures
were built to various stages of completion. Eleven buildings were constructed
in Roxbury. However that was to be the extent of the progress. The DCA filed
for bankruptcy in April 1973, leaving half-completed buildings to remain
vacant on once vacant lots. The <a
href="http://portal.hud.gov/portal/page/portal/HUD">U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development</a> (HUD) inherited the properties. The structures that
were completed soon proved to be structurally deficient: the slabs of
pre-stress concrete pulled apart and the roofs leaked. Social problems arose
as a result of the some 315 families living together in the various apartment
buildings, and by 1976 the tenant cooperative had faded away. Robert Walsh,
the deputy director of the BRA from 1971-1976, explained the project’s failure
in two short sentences: “Simply speaking it was a damn good idea. It just
broke down in
execution.”

For sixteen years the abandoned shells of the half-completed or otherwise
abandoned Infill houses languished in Roxbury, bringing down housing prices
and attracting vandals and burglars until 1986 when another neighborhood
housing initiative spearheaded by Mayor Raymond L. Flynn made use of the
existing structures and land. <a href="http://openvault.wgbh.org/">Open
Vault</a>, our very own digital library of archived WGBH news and programming,
has footage from <a
href="http://openvault.wgbh.org/collections/tocn-the-ten-o-clock-news">The Ten
O’Clock News</a> in 1986 which shows <a
href="http://openvault.wgbh.org/catalog/tocn-mla000504-flynn-and-bolling-unveil-plans-for-roxbury-development">Mayor
Flynn announcing the construction of a housing and commercial complex in
Douglass Square in
Roxbury</a>.

<strong>Save for a few residents who admitted that they were better off in the
new units despite the issues, the Infill Housing Plan of the late 1960s and
early 70s was a failure. </strong>One piece of a larger political and civic
effort in the 1960s and 70s to revitalize declining U.S. neighborhoods
following the creation of President Lyndon Johnson’s HUD in 1965, the Infill
Housing program, like many other HUD-run projects, failed for a number of
reasons: overzealous private contractors who promised too much too quickly;
building materials whose cost inflated in the run up to construction,
especially for precast concrete; an absence of on-site security; and, perhaps
most tellingly, a lack of serious support from local residents. <em>The Boston
Globe</em> found fault within the very structure of HUD itself. “Money flowed
into the cities during the late ‘60s and early ‘70s,” one 1977 article reads,
“but the expertise needed to make the programs work (proper inspection of
homes whose mortgages were to be federally insured, and educating the poor,
first-time homeowner and provisions for escalating costs) did not come built
into the
programs.”

Please share your memories of the Infill Housing Program's controversial
history in the comment section below. What do you
remember?

<strong>References:</strong>
<ul>
	<li>*Roxbury neighborhood housing initiative  map courtesy Boston Public
Library Government Documents and the Internet Archive, n.d., <a
href="http://www.archive.org/details/roxburyneighborh00bost.">http://www.archive.org/details/roxburyneighborh00bost.</a></li>
	<li><em> </em>“Mrs. Hicks Denounces ‘Infill’ Housing Plan.” <em>The Boston
Globe </em><em>17 November 1969: 3. </em><em>Boston Globe</em> Archive.
Web.</li>
	<li>Ellis, David R. “Hub Council OK’s ‘Infill’ Housing; Rips White.” <em>The
Boston Globe </em>15 October 1968: 8. <em>Boston Globe</em> Archive.
Web.</li>
	<li>Flynn, Raymond L. “Roxbury Neighborhood Housing Initiative.”
1986.</li>
	<li>Hartnett, Ken. “A failure in cooperative housing.” <em>The Boston
Globe</em> 29 April 1976: 23. <em>Boston Globe </em>Archive.
Web.</li>
	<li>Osgood, Viola. "HUD housing a blight on city." <em>The Boston Globe
</em>14 April 1977: 3. <em>Boston Globe </em>Archive.
Web.</li>
	<li>Rogers, David. “The Fall of Infill: Vacant lot housing program bankrupt,
but salvage plans continue.” <em>The Boston Globe </em>7 October 1973: A1.
<em>Boston Globe </em>Archive.
Web.</li>
	<li>Yudis, Anthony J. “First Duplex Built in South End ‘Infill’ Housing
Program.” <em>The Boston Sunday Globe </em>8 September 1968: 44. <em>Boston
Globe </em>Archive.
Web.</li>
	<li>———. “‘Infill’ Housing Plan Receives Complaints.” <em>The Boston Globe
</em>20 April 1969: 36. <em>Boston Globe </em>Archive.
Web.</li>
</ul>