# Albert "Dapper" O'Neil, Boston City Councilor

[caption id="attachment_2261" align="alignleft" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/2394_09380_8_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2261" alt="Dapper O'Neil"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/2394_09380_8_thumbnail-300x224.jpg"
width="300" height="224" /></a> Albert "Dapper" O'Neil addresses Boston City
Council on court-ordered busing. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/2394_09380_8">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr"
id="docs-internal-guid-0ebc212c-e8c2-0944-2434-91a27426eba7">Boston City
Councilors are a very important part of the Boston political landscape.
Because they are elected every two years, they are constantly campaigning and
making sure the public knows who they are. And because they can serve an
indefinite number of terms, they can characterize a whole era of Boston
politics. This can lead to some pretty interesting characters. To explore
these influential and often fascinating people, the Boston TV News Digital
Library has chosen to devote one post a month to highlighting a former
Councilor.</p>
<p dir="ltr">This month we’re going to start things off with <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dapper_O%27Neil">Mr. Albert “Dapper”
O’Neil</a>. O’Neil was first appointed to the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_City_Council">Boston City
Council</a> to fill the seat of Councilwoman <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louise_Day_Hicks">Louise Day Hicks</a>,
when she took her seat in the U.S. House of Representatives (Hick’s tenure in
the House was short-lived and eventually she returned to the City Council,
serving alongside O’Neil). Following his appointment, he continued to run as
an incumbent and was successfully reelected every two years until 1999. He
became the President of the Boston City Council in 1992, elected after the
previous president, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christopher_A._Iannella">Christopher
Iannella</a>,
died.</p>


[caption id="attachment_2262" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/barcode235773_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2262" alt="Dapper O'Neil Interview"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/barcode235773_thumbnail-300x202.jpg"
width="300" height="202" /></a> Interview with Albert "Dapper" O'Neil during
his campaign for Sheriff. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_OCSGWNUKROMLML5">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr">O’Neil was known for his social conservatism and his spirited
oratory. He fought against most racial integration policy and strongly
defended 2nd Amendment rights. His training at the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Staley_School_of_the_Spoken_Word">Staley
School of the Spoken Word</a> (from which John F. Kennedy also graduated),
distinguished his speeches and arguments in the City Council chambers. This <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/2394_09380_8">speech</a> about <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_Garrity">Judge Arthur Garrity</a>
during the busing controversy is a great
example.</p>
<p dir="ltr"
id="docs-internal-guid-0ebc212c-e8c4-fc4e-39ed-1204080a5a87">Additionally in
the collection, we have an original field tape from an interview Gary Griffith
conducted with O’Neil in 1978 during his run for Suffolk County Sheriff.
Unedited interviews are an especially good format for a user to get a sense of
a person’s personality. The flow of the conversation is preserved, rather than
edited for concision and clarity. A user can get a better idea of, not only
the content being conveyed which would likely survive in an edited piece, but
also the momentum of the discussion, including uneasy pauses and overexcited
answers that start before the interviewer’s question is
finished.</p>
<p dir="ltr">The <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_OCSGWNUKROMLML5">1978 interview</a>
gives the user a good sense of O’Neil’s personality and politics. In his light
green jacket, with his hair slicked back, O’Neil composedly but passionately
answers Griffith’s questions. He continually comes back to the phrase, “I’m a
law and order man,” to differentiate himself from his opponent in the election
for sheriff. The interview also touches on many of the stories and traits that
make O’Neil a more contentious figure than most of his fellow City Councilors.
Towards the end of the interview, he explains how he got his nickname
“Dapper,” while growing up in Roxbury. He also states that although he still
has a license, he rarely carries a firearm, although many people still assert
he was never without one. He also addresses a story rife with rumors, about
his extremely short tenure as Patronage Secretary under Endicott “Chub”
Peabody. The rumors say it was a tiff with Edward Kennedy that forced O’Neil
out of this position, while O’Neil asserts that he only held the office for
six and a half hours because his method of running the department clashed with
everyone else. Even though the truth may never come out, it’s very interesting
to have a first hand account from the person
involved.</p>
<p dir="ltr">There are even more stories about Dapper O'Neil in our
collection, including <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_PGMHPZ23WZ0GAUB">this one</a> that we
previously highlighted, of him responding to the Robert Mapplethorpe exhibit
at the
ICA.</p>
<p
dir="ltr"><strong>References:</strong></p>
<p dir="ltr">Marquard, Bryan. "'Dapper' O'Neil, champion of personal politics,
dies at 87." <em>Boston Globe</em> (Boston, MA), December 20, 2007. Accessed
January 31, 2014 at <a
href="http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/obituaries/articles/2007/12/20/dapper_oneil_champion_of_personal_politics_dies_at_87/?page=full">http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/obituaries/articles/2007/12/20/dapper_oneil_champion_of_personal_politics_dies_at_87/?page=full</a></p>
<p
dir="ltr"></p>