# Elma Lewis

[caption id="attachment_2276" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/barcode340203_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2276" alt="Elma Lewis"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/barcode340203_thumbnail-300x202.jpg"
width="300" height="202" /></a> Elma Lewis interview in 1980. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_ASYO4BH8ZOAQCM8">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-6215391d-f975-4d90-21cb-714e2e3ff1dc"><a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elma_Lewis">Elma Lewis</a> has left her
mark on Boston and the national arts community. A recipient of both a <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MacArthur_Fellows_Program">MacArthur Fellow
Grant</a> and the Presidential Medal for the Arts, her work in arts education
is beyond impressive. She was also an important community leader for civil
rights. She founded both the National Center for Afro-American Artists and the
Elma Lewis School of Fine
Arts.</p>
<p dir="ltr">One can get a good idea of how influential and prominent she was
in the Boston community based on her prevalence in our collections. She
appears in the audience at many events, supporting many politicians and civil
rights leaders at press conferences, making speeches at colleges and museums,
and in several interviews. As we’ve been digitizing, viewing, and cataloging
more news stories, we’ve discovered several additional stories that feature
Ms. Lewis, where she hadn’t been mentioned in the original
record.</p>
<p dir="ltr">One of the assets we have digitized is an unedited portion of an
<a href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_ASYO4BH8ZOAQCM8">interview with
Ms. Lewis</a> in 1980, followed by b-roll shot for the story. This tape is the
last one of the interview, and, unfortunately, it seems that we don’t have any
of the others in the archives. Ms. Lewis has an easy, relaxed way of talking
to reporter Karen Holmes, camera operator Bob, and the camera directly, while
she answers the final question of the interview, about the fate of black arts
and cultural institutions and the black community as a whole. She asserts that
“we stay” despite the lack of funding and other hardships, citing the Twelfth
Baptist Church as an example. She goes on to describe that, while many people
think that Boston’s racial problems arose because of busing, that as a child
before busing in the 1970s, she did suffer the effects of racism as a member
of the black middle class. She was the only black student at <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emerson_College">Emerson</a> when she
attended, and there hadn’t been a black student for 15 years before she
enrolled, and there wasn’t another one until 10 years after. Her time there
was so difficult, that when the college later chose to grant her an honorary
doctorate, they had to ask her if she would even accept
it.</p>
Just before they start to shoot the cutaways, she gives an eloquent example of
the divide between the generations in the black community. She says the
following of her generation: “When they were children they had to eat the
crusts, so the adults could have the bread. And now that they’re adults, they
have to eat the crusts, so the children can have the bread.” She is never
bitter and always hopeful, both in this interview and in the other stories in
our
collection.

We have even more <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=elma+lewis&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">news
stories featuring Elma Lewis</a> in our collections. For more about Elma
Lewis’ life and work, read this short <a
href="http://bwht.org/elma-lewis/">biography</a>. <a
href="http://www.library.neu.edu/archives/collect/findaids/m38find.htm">Elma
Lewis' papers</a> and the <a
href="http://www.library.neu.edu/archives/collect/findaids/m43find.htm">Elma
Lewis School of Fine Arts records</a> can be found at Northeastern's
Archives.