# Jimmy The Greek

<p dir="ltr"
id="docs-internal-guid-16ca4e66-0366-d6a2-75bf-3f3c524667f2">While I’m not the
type of person to sit around and watch sports commentary all day, all of the
TVs in the cafeteria at work play ESPN around the clock. This has kept me
abreast of all the latest sports scandals and related news. While none of our
collections have extensive sports coverage, I did come across an interesting
story, that while not coverage of a specific sporting event, is a piece of
commentary on professional sports
culture.</p>


[caption id="attachment_2296" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/barcode104215_thumbnail.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-2296" alt="Boston Celtics Fan interviewed"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/barcode104215_thumbnail-300x202.jpg"
width="300" height="202" /></a> Boston sports fan interviewed about the racial
divide in professional sports. Watch the <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_XWECRWAVKMNXRHR">full
story</a>.[/caption]
<p dir="ltr"><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jimmy_Snyder">Jimmy
Snyder</a>, born Dimetrios Georgios Synodinos, and known professionally as
Jimmy the Greek, was a sports commentator on <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_NFL_Today">The NFL Today</a>, a pregame
show that aired on Sundays during the NFL season. His role was to predict the
outcomes of the games, something he was known for even before he started on
TV, in his previous job as a <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bookmaker">bookie</a>. He became a minor
celebrity, so when a Washington, D.C. reporter spotted him while he was doing
a story on the progress of African Americans in honor of MLK’s birthday in
1988, the reporter asked him for his opinion about the progress African
Americans had made in professional sports. Snyder responded that the only area
of professional sports that was not yet dominated by African Americans was
coaching, and he was worried that, based on pressure from African American
athletes and civil rights leaders, they might soon take over that arena as
well. He also commented that African Americans are superior athletes because
of the way their ancestors were bred by their slave owners before the Civil
War. Upon hearing these remarks, CBS immediately fired Snyder. Even after
apologizing for his comments, CBS refused to rehire him. Some African American
civil rights leaders, including Rev. Jesse Jackson, said that they thought CBS
was being too hard on him. Other people agreed wholeheartedly with the
networks’
decision.</p>
<p dir="ltr">Our collections include an interesting story that looks at a
variety of opinions about the situation. WGBH’s The Ten O’Clock News did a <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_XWECRWAVKMNXRHR">story</a> on the
reactions of Boston sports fans to Snyder’s comments and subsequent firing.
Christy George interviews fans at the Boston Garden, who give mixed opinions.
She also interviews Celtics players Dennis Johnson and Mark Acres, and Celtics
coach (and former player) K.C. Jones, who was one of the few African American
coaches in American professional sports. The story gives reactions to both the
comments Snyder made and the underlying racial divide in professional sports
on which he was basing his
comments.</p>
<p dir="ltr">There is still sports commentary that discusses race issues in
professional sports. There are also still scandals over things that sports
commentators say. With the ever increasing amount of sports coverage, it's
unlikely that this is a trend that will stop anytime soon. This piece of news,
cultural, and sports history gives us a look at the way similar situations
were handled 26 years
ago.</p>