# About

Welcome to the Boston TV News Digital Library, funded by the Institute of
Museum and Library Services and the Council on Library and Information
Resources. This collaboration between the Boston Public Library, Cambridge
Community television, Northeast Historic Film and WGBH Educational Foundation
aims to bring to life local news stories produced in and about Boston from the
early 1960’s to
2000.

We’ve created an online catalog of news content from Boston Public Library’s
WHDH film collection (1960- mid-1970s), Cambridge Community Television (1988
to 1999), Northeast Historic Film’s WCVB film collection (1970-1979), and
WGBH-produced The Reporters (1970-1973), Evening Compass (1973-1975) and the
Ten O’Clock News. That's almost 50,000
records.

At the start of the project, we asked the public to browse our catalog and
vote for the news content they were interested in seeing. Based on those votes
and some input from scholars, we digitized over 500 film reels and tapes,
which amounts to over 100 hours of historical news footage, which we have
streaming for free. We'll be able to continue to digitize on-demand other news
stories requested by our viewers, at the discretion of the holding
institution.

PBS LearningMedia has created learning objects based on materials in the
Boston TV News Digital Library. Check out this collection at <a
href="http://www.pbslearningmedia.org/collection/bln12/">http://www.pbslearningmedia.org/collection/bln12/</a>.

The project will also produce a primer on legal issues surrounding access to
local news stories. We hope to launch the primer on the website in the near
future.