# Nuclear Energy: Covering the Seabrook Nuclear Power Plant

[caption id="attachment_1138" align="alignright" width="300"]<a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Power_plant_fisherman.jpg"><img
class="size-medium wp-image-1138" title="Power_plant_fisherman" alt="Seabrook
Nuclear Power Plant"
src="http://bostonlocaltv.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Power_plant_fisherman-300x123.jpg"
width="300" height="123" /></a> Seabrook Nuclear Power Plant, Courtesy
Wikimedia
Commons[/caption]

Working on the WCVB assignment sheets, I couldn’t help but notice the ongoing
coverage of the construction of the Seabrook Nuclear Power Plant in New
Hampshire. While the WCVB stories do end up covering a lot of the North East,
most of the big stories are either Boston-based, or Boston reactions to
national stories. That is why I was so surprised that there are no less than
57 mentions of the nuclear power plant. I could glean a lot of information
from the records, so I came to a quick understanding of why this story was
getting so much coverage, but it took a little research for me to realize that
this wasn’t only a nationally important story getting covered locally, but was
actually a local story. Seabrook, New Hampshire is only 40 miles from Boston
City
Center.

In 1976 the construction permit for Seabrook Nuclear Power Plant was granted.
There were protests by anti-nuke groups starting right away, and between 1976
and 1989, more than 4000 people demonstrated at the site of the plant.
However, the biggest and most famous protest was staged in April of 1977 by
Clamshell Alliance. Over 2000 activists came to this protest, 1414 of whom
were arrested and held for two weeks, refusing bail. The size of this
demonstration is especially notable because it took place in 1977, before the
partial nuclear meltdown at the 3 Mile Island nuclear plant in Pennsylvania in
March 1979, which we also have coverage of in our collection. This accident
was an event that triggered protests around the world and a decline in the
number of new reactors built in the U.S., and it is still considered the worst
accident in U.S. commercial nuclear power plant history. In addition to
anti-nuke groups, Massachusetts Governor Dukakis, concerned about
environmental effects and emergency evacuation plans, was also opposed to the
construction of the
plant.

The Seabrook Plant was a big story with a lot of press coverage, which is
great because it means we have information about the events from different
perspectives and covering a range of topics, rather than focusing on only one
person, group, or viewpoint. Those 57 stories discuss the views of local
residents, Meldrim Thomson (then New Hampshire’s governor), Massachusetts
politicians, anti-nuke groups (including Clamshell Alliance), national
politicians at D.C. hearings, and the Environmental Protection Agency. These
stories covered anti-nuke arguments, construction workers and schedules,
utilities companies investing in the power plant, alternatives to building a
nuclear power plant, protests of the plant, protesters being arrested and in
court, efforts to raise awareness in Boston and other places, town meetings,
and comparing the proposed Seabrook plant with other nuclear power
plants.

Construction of the Seabrook Nuclear Power Plant was held up for ten years,
and costs almost $7 billion. Construction of Unit 1 was completed in 1986, and
full power operation began in 1990. Plans to build a second unit were
cancelled. Recently, the license was extended from 2030 to
2050.

Nuclear energy is still an extremely controversial topic nationally and
internationally.  Affinity groups, like Clamshell Alliance are still active.
To read about current views on the issue, please visit the following
websites:

Clamshell
Alliance

<a
href="http://clamshellalliance.org/">http://clamshellalliance.org/</a>

Environmental Protection
Agency

http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-and-you/affect/nuclear.html

SAGE
Alliance

<a
href="http://www.sagealliance.net/">http://www.sagealliance.net/</a>

Safe and Green
Campaign

http://www.safeandgreencampaign.org/

World Nuclear
Association

http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/inf06.html

In the past few weeks Alliance groups protested another New England Nuclear
Power Plant, the Vermont Yankee Plant, in a rather unusual way. Watch <a
href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NFX8QXTVDO8">this video</a> of their
"Trojan Cow"
Protest.

Vote to digitize and stream stories about the Seabrook Nuclear Power Plant <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=seabrook+nuclear+plant&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">here</a>,
and about the protests <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=seabrook+protest&amp;search_field=all_fields&amp;x=0&amp;y=0">here</a>.

<strong>References:</strong>

Delevingne, Lionel. “30<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of Mass Arrest at Seabrook,
NH, Anti-Nuclear Rally.” <em>Mother Jones</em>, <a
href="http://www.motherjones.com/photoessays/2007/05/30th-anniversary-seabrook-anti-nuclear-rally/01">http://www.motherjones.com/photoessays/2007/05/30th-anniversary-seabrook-anti-nuclear-rally/01</a>
(accessed May 29,
2012).

Marcuse, Harold. “Seabrook, NH Nuclear Plant Occupation Page.” <a
href="http://www.marcuse.org/harold/pages/seabrook.htm">http://www.marcuse.org/harold/pages/seabrook.htm</a>
(accessed May 29,
2012).

Wikipedia contributors, "Nuclear power," <em>Wikipedia, The Free
Encyclopedia,</em> <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nuclear_power&amp;oldid=493424173">http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nuclear_power&amp;oldid=493424173</a>
(accessed May 29,
2012).

Wikipedia contributors, "Seabrook Station Nuclear Power Plant," <em>Wikipedia,
The Free Encyclopedia,</em> <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Seabrook_Station_Nuclear_Power_Plant&amp;oldid=486459087">http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Seabrook_Station_Nuclear_Power_Plant&amp;oldid=486459087</a>
(accessed May 29,
2012).

Wikipedia contributors, "Three Mile Island accident," <em>Wikipedia, The Free
Encyclopedia,</em> <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Three_Mile_Island_accident&amp;oldid=494813366">http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Three_Mile_Island_accident&amp;oldid=494813366</a>
(accessed May 29,
2012).

&nbsp;