# Remembering Anthony Lewis

<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthony_Lewis">Anthony Lewis</a> died of
heart and renal failure this Monday, March 25, says his wife, former Chief
Justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Margaret_H._Marshall">Margaret
Marshall</a>. The two-time Pulitzer winner, spent the majority of his career
writing for the New York Times, for which he wrote "Abroad at Home" and "At
Home Abroad" for the op-ed column, in addition to his legal reporting. He also
wrote three books, the most famous of which is <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gideon%27s_Trumpet"><em>Gideon's
Trumpet</em></a>, now a classic for those studying law. The book covers the
1963 Gideon v. Wainwright case, which changed federal law to ensure that all
defendant, even the poorest who cannot pay to have a lawyer, are guaranteed
legal
representation.

Mr. Lewis and his wife spent their last years together in Cambridge. He
appears in various news stories throughout our collections, including a speech
on the first amendment at the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brattle_Theater">Brattle</a> in Cambridge,
interviews on the Supreme Court and the politics of the Middle East, and as
part of a panel of experts. Although Mr. Lewis was a print journalism man, who
wrote on a manual type writer until the day he died, we can also remember him
through local news footage addressing the issues he held
dear.

<strong>References:</strong>

Laboie, Denise. “Pulitzer Prize-Winning Anthony Lewis Dies at 85.”
<em>WBUR</em>, March 25, 2013. <a
href="http://www.wbur.org/2013/03/25/anthony-lewis-dies">http://www.wbur.org/2013/03/25/anthony-lewis-dies</a>

Liptak, Adam. “Anthony Lewis, Supreme Court Reporter Who Brought Law to Life,
Dies at 85.” <em>New York Times</em>, March 25, 2013.
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/26/us/anthony-lewis-pulitzer-prize-winning-columnist-dies-at-85.html?_r=0

&nbsp;