# Rosie's Place

Update: As of October 21, 2013 there is <a
href="http://bostonlocaltv.org/catalog/V_BTR1WJVOJAAC80U">video</a> related to
this post on our
website.

<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kip_Tiernan">Kip Tiernan</a> was a
prolific social activist. After coming to Boston in mid 1940s, when she was in
her young twenties, she spearheaded and assisted in the founding of numerous
community organizations, including Boston Health Care for the Homeless, Boston
Food Bank, Community Works, Aid to Incarcerated Mothers, Finex House, Food for
Free, John Leary House, My Sister’s Place, Transition House, the Greater
Boston Union of the Homeless, and Boston’s Emergency Shelter
Commission.

In 1974 she founded <b>the very first shelter for <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homeless_women_in_the_United_States">homeless
women in America</a></b>: <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosie%27s_Place">Rosie’s Place</a>. After
realizing that many homeless women were disguising themselves in order to be
allowed to stay in men-only shelters, she converted an abandoned supermarket
and turned it into a resource for the homeless women of Boston. Rosie’s Place
has since adopted the slogan<strong> “From Diapers to Detox,”</strong>
indicating the wide variety of assistance they give to homeless women who face
a multitude of problems, which can range from keeping their children safe from
violent homes and feeding their families, to substance abuse and
illiteracy.

In 1984 they moved from the supermarket building to a church rectory in the
same <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_End,_Boston">South End</a>
neighborhood. In 2004 the Adult Education Program was established, offering
free English as a Second Language and General Education Development classes,
and in 2010 they finished building their own Women’s Education Center, which
has eight classrooms and greatly expands the courses Rosie’s Place can
offer.

<strong>References:</strong>

Hevesi, Dennis. “Kip Tiernan, Founder of First Shleter for Homeless Women,
Dies at 85.” <i>New York Times</i>, July 12, 2011. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/13/us/13tiernan.html?_r=0">http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/13/us/13tiernan.html?_r=0</a>

Vander Wiedid, Kate. “Rosie’s Place debuts Women’s Education Center.” <i>My
South End</i>, March 9, 2010. <a
href="http://www.mysouthend.com/index.php?ch=news&amp;sc=&amp;sc2=news&amp;sc3=&amp;id=103235">http://www.mysouthend.com/index.php?ch=news&amp;sc=&amp;sc2=news&amp;sc3=&amp;id=103235</a>

Wikipedia contributors, "Kip Tiernan," <i>Wikipedia, The Free
Encyclopedia,</i> <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kip_Tiernan&amp;oldid=537327931">http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kip_Tiernan&amp;oldid=537327931</a>

Wikipedia contributors, "Rosie's Place," <i>Wikipedia, The Free
Encyclopedia,</i> <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rosie%27s_Place&amp;oldid=519699433">http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rosie%27s_Place&amp;oldid=519699433</a>